0:00	How good are you at thinking? It's a bit of a strange question, but how well you think is often the difference between someone who is great at solving problems
0:08	and making decisions or learning things quickly. You can't just try to think harder or think better because what does that even mean? I used to think it was
0:16	all about having different frameworks for thinking. So, I'd spend my time reading books like this or this, even books like this. And these are all great
0:25	books, but just having some frameworks of thinking is often not enough. I actually think there's one thing in particular that most people don't do
0:34	very often and as a cognitive performance coach it produces the most amount of difference compared to all the other strategies or frameworks and tips
0:41	that I teach them. And this skill is the ability to hypothesize structure and I'll explain this with an
0:49	interesting observation. As a learning and performance coach, I get to have very in-depth discussions with experts,
0:56	top performers about how they think about their expertise. And what I've noticed is that the very best performers, they're able to create
1:04	really organized structure. And you can take two experts and the structure that they come out to, the actual points that
1:11	they emphasize may be different, but it's still structured. And almost universally the people who struggle with
1:20	that more complex decision-m and thinking clearly they struggle to create that structure. The important point here is that it's not actually about whether
1:28	the structure is correct or not. This is why this skill is called hypothesizing structure. It's the ability to say this
1:37	really complicated problem which is composed up of lots of individual points. I'm going to actively try and
1:44	organize this. Instead of thinking about each point individually, I'm going to start with trying to group things together and hypothesize how I think
1:54	this topic is structured. And neuroscientifically, this is extremely powerful at helping you think through things faster for three key reasons.
2:02	First of all, it helps your brain to develop context. Your brain loves context. Your brain hates not having
2:12	context. Think about this. The only reason things have meaning is because we understand how that thing could influence other things. That is context.
2:22	It's what allows your brain to make sense of the world around us. It's what allows your brain to make sense of problems and challenges. But the thing
2:29	is, your brain does not always automatically build context, especially when there's lots of moving pieces and
2:37	they're not obviously connected together. This is the situation in most of our life. Most of our life outside of
2:45	formal education is not already structured. We're given a bunch of things that we need to achieve. This undefined mass of stuff we just need to
2:53	learn and figure out. Everything is unstructured. This is extremely complicated and it's how you can spend hours and sleepless nights thinking
3:02	about an issue, mulling it over in your head without really making any progress because despite going through the thoughts over and over again, you
3:09	haven't created any structure for your brain to think through. So by hypothesizing a structure, even if that
3:16	structure is not correct or accurate, it gives it focus. And by doing that we get to figure out if that structure of
3:25	thinking is good or not. And this is actually where the second benefit comes in is that if that structure is not correct, it creates something that we
3:33	call a prediction error. And a prediction error is one of our brains strongest growth signals. So let's walk
3:41	through an example of what hypothesizing a structure might look like and how it creates this prediction error. Let's say we're trying to make a decision about
3:48	whether we should change the software that our team uses for managing projects. Now, this is a complicated decision because there are lots of
3:56	different factors to consider. Let's write some of these down. And here we go. We've got 10 different factors that make this complicated. And thinking
4:04	through all 10 things simultaneously is very unstructured. Our brain doesn't have any context. It doesn't really know how to think about this. And so, I'm going to hypothesize a structure here.
4:12	I'm going to say hey brain try thinking about this problem in this way. So maybe I think about this as risks versus
4:20	benefits. So these are some of the risks getting our permissions and our security right the training time the cost but the
4:28	benefits is that we will have better tracking of our outcomes better collaboration within the team improved workflows. And let's just map this out so it's a little easier to see.
4:39	Okay. And already it looks a little bit more structured. It just feels like it's going to be a little bit easier to think through this. In fact, I can even give it more structure. So, let's say that I
4:48	look at all of this and I feel like I can group this and structure it even better.
4:53	There we go. And now it's even more organized. And now that we have a hypothesized structure, we use the structure to try and solve the problem, reach the outcome, make the decision.
5:04	So, now let's think about should we use this new software or not? Here are the risks and the problems. Let's detail what those risks and problems really are
5:13	and we'll balance that against the benefits to visibility and to execution.
5:18	And in doing so, often what we find is that we run into problems. For example, perhaps we realize that the biggest issue of all is the fact that if we do
5:28	not improve our workflows, we won't be able to keep up with the competition. So the workflow is actually more of a risk
5:35	if we leave it unchanged. And in a similar way, I guess if you don't change any of these other things, these all
5:42	also become risks. And now we've got this actually very common situation where the detriment and the risk of not
5:51	doing something is just the opposite of all the benefits you would maybe receive from doing it. We don't really know how
5:58	to think about it anymore because our structure has failed us. We hypothesized that by splitting this decision into
6:05	risks versus benefits, it would make it easier for us to think. But now that we tried to use this structure, we realize that it didn't actually help us at all.
6:15	And what I found that a lot of people do at this point is that they just stop.
6:18	And this is the reason why it's so important to understand that it is a hypothesized structure. And the reason that we're creating this structure in the first
6:27	place is not necessarily to get it right straight away, but to learn from why it was wrong. This is the prediction error.
6:36	We have predicted that this kind of structure was going to help us. And when we applied it to our context and to real
6:43	life, we saw that this is not very helpful. This created an error signal.
6:48	And that error signal comes back to our brain and tells us that we need to change how we're thinking about this.
6:55	And so a fast effective thinker is able to hypothesize different structures faster. It's not necessarily that they
7:02	are actually thinking faster. It's that they're willing to be wrong more frequently. And so they're getting more of these prediction errors being
7:11	generated. So they might think through this and realize, oh, this is not a useful way of thinking about it. Maybe I could hypothesize a different structure instead. Like if I know that the
7:20	workflows is the most important thing to focus on, what if I structure everything around the workflows?
7:29	And now this is the new structure that I'm thinking through. Again, you can see it looks pretty organized. It feels like this is something that my brain could
7:37	clearly focus on and think through, not just random thoughts that it's bouncing around. And maybe with this flow we can say our key bottlenecks are actually our
7:46	ability to improve because we don't have good recording and logging. And it's partly because we don't have good
7:53	project visibility that influences our team's ability to collaborate. And so now I can think about what would be the
8:00	cost and time to fix all of these issues without making the change versus what would be the cost and time on the new
8:08	software platform. And the only reason I'm able to think about this in this way is because I went through different structures. I told my brain, try seeing
8:16	the big picture in this way. If that doesn't work, try thinking about it in this way. And in fact, the reason that structures and frameworks of thinking
8:24	that you learn in books and courses is helpful in the first place is it just gives you a possible structure to think
8:32	through. And what you need to realize is that these structures are just a starting point for your thinking.
8:36	Finding these errors is a normal part of the process. The only part you're missing is changing that structure, making it more suited for you after
8:44	learning from those errors. And FYI, if you are looking for really useful frameworks to give you structure across
8:52	lots of different types of decisions and problems that you're likely to face as a as a working professional, then I can give you some recommendations. So, these books that I held up before are
9:00	genuinely great. I do recommend reading these. This one is also a favorite of lots of entrepreneurs and business owners for good reason. And another
9:08	favorite source for a lot of uh working professionals and business owners trying to think clearly through uncertainty is this. I can't quite reach it, but it's
9:17	uh down in the description below. It's a link to my free weekly newsletter. These are short 3 to 5 minute emails that I write up. I'm thinking through the types
9:25	of context and the types of frameworks that will help me to learn faster and think faster and stay in flow for longer. I give you practical, actionable
9:33	tips, but I also try and teach you how I think about the problem in the first place. And I think that that is more important because when you know how to
9:40	think about it, when that strategy doesn't work for you, you know how to go back and then modify it to make it work for you. If you're interested in learning more or uh joining, then you can sign up in the description below.
9:51	You can check it out. You can unsubscribe at any time. Again, it's totally free and it's great if you want to get a little bit more in-depth on some of these ideas that I'm talking about in my videos. But back to the
9:59	topic, the best thing I think about this is that your quality of thinking is no longer dependent on just whether you can
10:07	think of good ideas or not, but it centers the quality around a process, which means this is controllable. If
10:15	you're struggling to think through something or it's taking you longer, normally what happens is this makes you confused or frustrated or stressed. Some people start labeling themselves,
10:23	saying, "I'm not great at planning or I get overwhelmed with really complicated problems." That is a very identity attribute centered approach and it's
10:32	often not true. Most people are very capable of thinking clearly through uncertainties. They're just not using the right process. And by understanding
10:39	that hypothesizing structures is one of the most important processes to use, it means next time you're feeling stuck on how to think through something, all you
10:48	need to do is focus on hypothesizing more structures. And therefore, by giving your brain more context and generating prediction errors to make
10:56	that context more accurate, you naturally find it easier to figure it out. So, this is what I would consider as the most important first step to help you think faster and sharper. Like I
11:05	said, most people don't do this, but almost every top performer that I've worked with uh does do this, usually automatically. So, give this a go. Let me know how you find it in the comments.
11:14	And if you are interested in how to do this kind of thing where I mapped it out and you're wondering how you can get better at this particular skill, then I
11:21	would recommend checking out this video here where I teach you how to think on paper, which is probably the best skill that you can learn to complement what I talked about in this video. But
11:30	otherwise, thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next