0:00 a candidate for the governor of California who is extremely unique in a number of ways. First of all, he's a Republican. And second, he's a Brit.
0:10 Welcome to the program, Steve Helton.
0:13 It's a joke. I mean, what are these Democrats doing? We already have the highest taxes in the country. Your first
0:20 100 grand tax-free. Even Katie Porter agrees with that.
0:23 Prior to that, he was in Silicon Valley as a tech entrepreneur. People are so sick of the nonsense. Is everything twice as good when they've doubled the
0:50 Wake up. Wake up, buddy. Let's go. Hi.
0:56 All right. Wake up, California. We have seven weeks to save our state. Are you ready? Are we going to do it?
1:05 We got seven weeks. That's all. But we can do it.
1:10 Seven weeks. Um, there's a lot of people here who aren't from California.
1:17 Well, actually, who's from California?
1:19 Raise your hand. Some res California. Yeah. What's but but help explain why California is so important.
1:29 California is not just the biggest state uh the richest state and the richest most important country on earth. It's
1:36 it's as I said just then and and you saw California means to America what America means to the world. I'm an immigrant
1:44 moved here in 2012 neighbors with Chamath. So how about that? I picked a good spot. Um and
1:52 I was inspired by this state. It represents for me and for so many people
1:59 over the like century plus that this state has been growing and leading in so many ways the absolute essence of what
2:06 we love about America. innovation and energy and ambition and hustle and that
2:13 kind of rebel spirit that that create that's why we've created so many industries here that have completely transformed the world starting right
2:21 here in Los Angeles over a century ago the entertainment industry obviously tech that you're all so familiar with but also our great a we have the leading
2:30 agriculture industry in the world we've in so many different fields we have led the world that's why it's so important
2:37 We don't let California go down any further. What is the state of the state then?
2:45 This state, I'm afraid, despite all our incredible advantages, and of course, we still have them. The things that the people in charge haven't managed yet to
2:52 ruin, um, our incredible natural beauty and the weather and the energy that you see in our startup communities, the best
3:00 innovation ecosystem anywhere in the world, great universities. But look at the facts. We've had 16 years of one party in control. Today in California,
3:08 we have the highest poverty rate in the country, the highest unemployment rate, the highest cost of living by far. Look at how you we have housing cost the
3:16 highest in the country. That's why people are leaving. They are leaving. Millions of people leaving California. This beautiful place. You got two right here.
3:23 And exactly. You've got now Chief Executive Magazine has ranked California in its annual survey of business leaders
3:31 for more than a decade 50th out of 50 for business climate. It's just incredible when you look at the range of
3:39 issues where the policies that we've been subjected to have just created the worst outcomes. Not just um
3:48 bad in comparison to other states, the worst out of every state. So look, we know we know how you measure the outcome, but go go back a few layers and think about just the root causes.