3:59 Democrats have run this state for a long time. Democrats used to be sort of like peace and love and permissiveness and
4:07 openness. Um, so just corral that for us because I think this is a place now that has become rules on
4:15 top of rules on top of rules. How did a group of people who basically were just like peace and love and leave us alone become the rule police?
4:23 It's ex exactly right. Um we this is what happens with one party rule actually and you see that in history. um
4:31 whether it's on the from the right or the left, it always ends up with a kind of insular self- reggarding elite that
4:39 just forgets about their responsibility to everyone else and just just gets obsessed with their own ideology, their
4:47 internal motivations that whoever their interest groups are that they represent.
4:51 And by the way, in Sacramento, we have one of the most corrupt systems anywhere in in in the country in terms of the power of the donors to the politicians
4:59 who make the decisions, the the unions, the uh the trial lawyers. That's why we have the worst litigation risk anywhere in the country. You run a business in
5:08 California. You start a business in California, 90% chance you're going to end up in litigation. So, it's just a complete mess when you get one party
5:15 rules. Now, um 16 years, the Democrats have run everything. all eight statewide elected positions, the state legislature
5:24 with a two-thirds majority, every big county, every big city, the state supreme court with a 6-1 Democrat-appointed majority. So, this is
5:32 what happens. The rules get piled up because every year they pass legislation that just adds to the burden and the
5:40 bloat. Last year, the the the Sacramento legislature passed 1,118 bills. So, we printed them out. I did an
5:49 Very productive. We'd very exact productivity going up there. We're going to we're going to be doing this year's in Sacramento on Thursday. We printed it
5:57 all out. I mean, I'm not that tall, but it was twice my height. Okay. Nobody's reading this. You think Gavin Newsome is reading all this before signing it? No.
6:08 It's written in the interests of the narrow groups that control that process
6:14 and it benefits them but hurts everybody else. That's why we have by far the highest regulatory blow. That's why one of the things I'm announcing today
6:23 actually is that we're going to cut the number of regulations in California from where we are today, which is over 420,000
6:31 by the end of my first term to under 200,000, which makes us competitive with the rest of the country.
6:37 Now, what but if if there's a if there's a nar if there's a narrow interest group that controls the legislature, is it not
6:44 also the case that that narrow interest group controls the machinery that I would argue doesn't necessarily elect people, but appoints people, which makes
6:53 it difficult for rational outsiders to have a shot at a true kind of democratic campaign. that they own the ballot
7:00 harvesting machines, that they own the campaigning machines, that they get everyone in the state behind them, all the unions, all the votes, everything is aligned under one controlled mechanism.
7:09 And therefore, it is at this point gotten so far down the road that is impenetrable and we cannot actually break in.
7:16 Well, it's definitely the case that we have this very uh powerful and corruptly funded machine that's running every I
7:23 agree with that. In fact, one of the ways that we're telling the story of this campaign is the people versus the machine. That's what this is. But
7:31 there's a majority of Californians who want change. That's clear from every single poll. When we started the general election part of this campaign, if you
7:39 look at the primary results on primary night in California in the governor's race, uh if you add up the myself and the other Republican, that's um 35%. I
7:49 got 25%, the other Republican 10. You add up all the Democrats, 65%. That's a 30point gap. The first poll came out, it
7:56 was a 25point gap. I know a lot of people were discouraged by that, but we were just beginning our campaign. And look what's happened just in the last
8:03 couple of months from a 30point gap on primary night to 25 points, 18 points, uh 14 points. The latest poll, an 8
8:11 point gap. We are showing that people want change in this state. And I just don't accept that we have to put up with this. And your only choice is to put up
8:20 with all this nonsense and bloat and tax and cost and all the hassles of living here or trying to work here. Uh your
8:28 only choice is to put up with it or leave. That's if I may say so as a new American citizen. That's a very
8:36 unAmerican attitude that it can't be done, that we can't make change happen.
8:41 We've got to fight for it. There are plenty of people who um believe that the state needs change. We just have to show
8:50 in the next seven weeks that change really is possible. If we get more votes, we'll win. It's quite simple.
8:56 Steve, why do you think that people feel that it would be almost a betrayal though, even if they want change to not, you know, vote Democrat? Why is that?
9:06 There there there seems to be in California, at least as I've lived it, a lot of very rational people who feel sort of out of place. They're not quite
9:15 sure whether they should be a Republican. They're made to feel guilty for not being completely a Democrat. So, they either don't vote or they just go in and they find the D and check the
9:23 box. Um and so all of the insanity sort of compounds. And if that if that continues to happen,
9:30 don't we need to hit rock bottom? Like isn't there going to be some financial event or otherwise that needs to happen to reset?
9:36 I got to tell you, I think it's pretty rock bottom now in terms of what it's actually like to live here. I mean, I traveled this state. I've been to every
9:43 one of our 58 counties. No candidate's done that in a very long time. I see we've done hundreds of events, town halls up and down the state. Every
9:52 single day, I see this the the just the pain and the struggle in people's eyes to live here. I mean, look, we house you
9:59 try and own a home here. We used to have the highest rate of home ownership in the country in California and the most affordable housing. Now the median house
10:08 price in California is nearly a million dollars. The median salary in California for an individual 65,000. I mean it's
10:15 just completely broken. And people are broken by this and they are desperate for change. The number one thing that people say to me when I'm out and about
10:24 and where they come up to in the airport or the street wherever we are at my events it's not good luck, hope you do well. There's an intensity this year.
10:32 The number one, it's almost word for word. This is what everyone says to me.
10:35 I've heard it even here backstage. You have to win. There's an intensity about it this year. Um, and I think that this
10:44 is the year we can really do that. Just to your point about Democrats, that's true that you've had this habit of voting Democrat even though the results have been increasingly disappointing.
10:55 But I think that's changing. I'm just I don't know. I give Friday 911. I was at the 911 memorial event in Sacramento.
11:03 Not there participating. I was just there to show my respects. I took my seat in the back. Um, people came up to me, take pictures and so on as they
11:11 often do. Just there just randomly in a pretty small event. I had a number of people, must been four or five people
11:19 just randomly all almost said the same word for word thing. I'm a lifelong Democrat, but I'm voting for you this
11:27 year. It's just I think we have reached that point and I' that's why I'm saying we got to wake up because the other
11:35 thing I hear all the time from business leaders or business owners every single day is if you don't make it in November,
11:44 we're out. And I'm just serious about this. If we if we think that it's bad
11:52 now, I think that the exodus of business that we've seen from California in the last couple of years, if we don't show
12:00 some change here and some balance in our system, it's going to turn into a stampede for the exits. It really is. I think this is a now or never election for California.
12:08 Let's let's talk about the metrics and the path to victory here. Poly market has you at 5% chance of winning. The