Blizzcon 2026, WoW Forever Beta, Midnight S3, and More in This Week’s Wow Weekly Blizzcon 2026, WoW Forever Beta, Midnight S3, and More in This Week’s Wow Weekly September 18th by Blizzard Entertainment 2 Share Tweet 2 Comments This week’s WoW Weekly roundup spotlights BlizzCon 2026 and the latest World of Warcraft announcements, including World of Warcraft: Forever , answers to community questions from our modern WoW and WoW Forever live Q&A, a peek at the Midnight Season 3 dungeon pool, and more! World of Warcraft at BlizzCon 2026 News Round-Up BlizzCon 2026 has come to a close, and we’ve gathered the latest World of Warcraft announcements, reveals, and updates from the weekend in one place. Catch up on all of this, and more, shared during the show: World of Warcraft Midnight: Eclipse Revealed The Final Chapter Begins in The Last Titan World of Warcraft: Forever Announced Tales Take a Dark Turn in Midnight's Talebound Click to Learn More Watch the World of Warcraft Live Q&A Now We’ve gathered your questions for members from across the World of Warcraft development team to answer. Watch now for more insight into the BlizzCon 2026 reveals and a look at what’s ahead for modern WoW and WoW Forever. We look forward to joining you on the adventures that await you in Azeroth. The World of Warcraft: Forever Beta Now Live Players are invited into the World of Warcraft: Forever beta to explore a reimagined original Azeroth, where familiar roads lead to new discoveries, the journey matters as much as the destination, and the world is ready to grow for years to come. Over the course of the test, we’ll be inviting community veterans, press, fansites, friends, and family to check out what’s ahead and share their feedback. Click to Learn More Take a Dip into the Midnight Season 3 Dungeon Pool Preview With the announcement of the Midnight Season 3 dungeon pool during the Midnight: What’s Next panel at BlizzCon 2026, the development team wanted to provide an early look at some of the changes for these returning dungeons. This is just the beginning and we look forward to your continued feedback as we continue to plan for the future of Midnight Season 3 and all of the new challenges it can bring. Click to Learn More Corruption Calls with the Abyssal Crown Collection In lightless depths, beauty does not perish; it twists into physical manifestations of the Void. Listen closely, the deeper you descend, the louder corruption calls. Cloak yourself in Azshara’s corrupted regalia and rise on a Zothwing mount touched by the Void with the Abyssal Crown Collection *, a trove of finery fit for those who dare to dabble in the dark influence of the Old Gods. Get the complete collection in one bundle, or pick up your favorite cosmetic items individually. Visit the Shop Let us journey alongside you, regale you with tales of adventure in faraway places, map out roads less traveled, and direct your gaze toward the legendary challenges that await. Return each week to the World of Warcraft news site , where together we'll uncover your destiny. 2 Comments Follow Warcraft