The World of Warcraft: Forever Beta Now Live The World of Warcraft: Forever Beta Now Live September 17th by Blizzard Entertainment 20 Share Tweet 20 Comments Players are invited into the World of Warcraft: Forever beta to explore a reimagined original Azeroth, where familiar roads lead to new discoveries, the journey matters as much as the destination, and the world is ready to grow for years to come. Over the course of the test, we’ll be inviting community veterans, press, fansites, friends, and family to check out what’s ahead and share their feedback. Enhance the Journey with World of Warcraft: Forever Digital Bundles Prepare for the road ahead with World of Warcraft: Forever digital bundles, including the Skyborne Epic Pack and the limited-time Warcraft Forever Collection. These bundles also include beta access, so you can jump into the beta and get your first taste of the adventures, stories, and systems waiting in WoW: Forever . By securing your copy ahead of time, you’ll unlock a range of valuable benefits and rewards designed to help you prepare for the adventures and challenges awaiting you in this new World of Warcraft experience. Pre-Purchase Today Getting Started Join us in testing World of Warcraft: Forever . Players who have opted in can be selected to participate, and invitations will go out regularly throughout the test. If selected, your Battle.net account is already flagged for access. Eligible digital bundle purchasers will also gain beta access—minimal delays of up to 30 minutes may be experienced, and a launcher restart may be needed. Make sure your graphics drivers are up to date. Run the Battle.net desktop app—it may need to update itself if you haven’t run it recently. If you don’t have the app installed, get started by downloading it from Battle.net. Once Battle.net is installed and updated, select World of Warcraft from the list of games. In the Game Version drop-down menu above the Play button, choose the World of Warcraft: Forever Beta option listed under In Development, then click Install. Allow installation to complete, click Play, and select any available test realm. Create a new test character when available. Enter the game and test the available content. If you have issues installing or operating the test, please check our Common Technical Issues and Solutions to begin troubleshooting. What’s Available in Beta When the test begins, the level cap will be set to 20 and will be raised to 30 later in the beta. Week 1 New Race and Zone: Skyborne and Zephras Isle New Dungeon: Hall of Thanes (Level 13–18) New Dungeon: Ruins of Lordaeron (Level 15–20) All zone content up to level 20. Additional zones, dungeons, and the new battleground will open for testing as the beta continues. At a later point during the test period, we’ll also open the servers for several hours so that anyone can access the WoW: Forever beta during that window for a “Server Slam.” We’ll share more details to closer to the test period. The beta will be available through October 21, the last full day of testing, as we begin final preparations for the launch of World of Warcraft: Forever . Sign Up for the World of Warcraft: Forever Beta Sign-ups for the World of Warcraft: Forever beta test are open. Selected players will receive an email invitation directing them to download the game client directly from the Battle.net desktop app. Bundle purchasers may also receive email notifications. As always, please be aware of phishing attempts—if you’re unsure whether your invitation is legitimate, log in to your Battle.net account to verify that there is a World of Warcraft: Forever beta license attached under Your Game Accounts. Sign Up Now Stay tuned to the official World of Warcraft news site to learn more about WoW: Forever in the weeks to come. 20 Comments Follow Warcraft