McKenzie is one of the most influential companies in the world. And if you've barely heard the name, that's exactly what they want. They've worked for 90 of the 100 biggest companies on Earth. Boeing, Coca-Cola, Microsoft, Google, the top banks, big oil, big tobacco, along with the White House, the Pentagon, the NSA, Saudi Arabia, China, Russia, South Africa, and dozens of other governments. And as you'll see in this story, the outcomes can hardly be said to benefit your life. >> There's no point not to hire McKenzie if you can afford it because it's a SWAT team of analysts that is at your beck and [music] call. It's basically a firm that will come into the office and say, "What do you want us to [music] do?" >> Our purpose is to create positive enduring change in the world. The work of McKenzie colleagues matters to clients, their customers, and society. We think we have the best people. That's the pitch in a nutshell. So, let's walk through the McKenzie Hall of Fame to see how it translates. Start with Kmart, Enron, and General Motors. All once too big to fail, all clients, and then all bankrupt. Enron was later exposed in some of the worst accounting fraud in history. 20,000 people lost their jobs and pensions. The CEO who went to prison was a McKenzie [music] partner. Then there's Disney. A consultant asked why mechanics checked the roller coaster's lap bars every day when the record showed they'd never failed. Disney switched to what a lawsuit called a runtofailure approach. A will then came off Big Thunder Mountain and killed a 22-year-old. In 2016, they built loyalty schemes for Marro, including an app that handed out novelty prizes for smoking more. You could even win a drone if you smoked enough. At AT&T, they told them mobile phones were niche and no one would buy them. Need I say any more than that? At Swiss Air, they told them to buy up stakes in rival airlines. Within four years, they were grounded on the tarmac. And littered throughout every job, you have their house specialtity, mass layoffs, costing Americans an estimated 5 million jobs. But we've not yet reached to the jewel of their crown. The year is 2004, and the goal at the farmer giant Pery was simple. Increase drug sales and make as much cash as humanly possible. The product is Oxycontton, an opioid with a well-known link to addiction. And there are millions of Americans who could be buying more of it. So, first they needed to identify the doctors prescribing the most pills. Then create a marketing campaign and target those doctors. Then increase the dosage to maximize addiction revenue. And then there's the problem of teenagers overdosing and their mothers talking about it to the press. We need a better way to counter this. And let's convince the FDA that Oxycontton is safe for kids. >> We sell hope in a bottle. This is an advertising campaign you came [music] up with. We sell hope in a bottle. That's for opioids. Hope in a bottle. You help Purdue Pharma market them to children. These are the results. [snorts] It's actually difficult to overstate how devastating Peru's actions were for America. Oxy then stuck a rocket up heroin and fentinyl addiction rates. When the pills were reformulated to be harder to crush, millions of people were already dependent. So the supply moved to heroin than fentinyl. And it all began with interns and suits and a PowerPoint presentation. Exactly how you imagine the benality of evil. >> It's exactly that profit at all costs. McKenzie Consultants were about the business of advising their clients on how to make as much money as possible from this deadly epidemic. It shows a callousness that really is beyond the pale and it's why McKenzie needs to be held accountable. >> But this is actually the one that got away from McKenzie. They were forced to pay $650 million for their involvement in the entire crisis. A senior partner, Martin Elling, emailed himself a to-do list, including deleting the old Purdue files from his laptop. He was the only one convicted for the entire ordeal. No lessons were learned as just a couple of years later, Valiian suffered a remarkably similar fate, hiking drug prices under Mckenzie's advice and ruining thousands of rare disease sufferers lives. Some drugs went from a few hundred to over $20,000. There was a Senate hearing and the company collapsed. Valiant was too aggressive and I as its leader was also too aggressive. >> You'd surely think a company like McKenzie has no hope of surviving any of this. If you did even a tiny fraction of any of these mistakes, you'd be in prison forever. But they still turn over $16 billion every year. Yet what reads like a catalog of tragic errors to any sane individual reads like an amazing CV to their prospective clients because the skills honed in the soulless corporate world were about to prove priceless for governments and their heenous policies. And so what better match for McKenzie than Saudi Arabia. You see the Saudis have just scaled back their embarrassing dystopia of neon. Work on the line has been halted until after 2030. The CEO is gone after $8 billion down the drain. But now you might not be surprised to know that McKenzie made a ton of money out of it first and probably helped a few others do the same along the way. McKenzie might build slideshows instead of buildings, but they designed the entire scope of the project. For it, their fee was over $130 million a year. But there's something about this story that's almost too absurd to be true. You see, the government hired McKenzie to audit McKenzie's own plans, and they admitted they were completely makebelieve. But don't mistake that as an unlikely turn for their honesty. More problems mean more expenditure, which is why the project is now expected to take until 2080 and will cost a light sum of $8.8 trillion. That's more than 25 times the entire Saudi government budget and more than the GDP of every country on Earth except America and China. All that death of the people that used to live there, the destruction and the burnt cash for a few foundations that will get covered by the sand and then eventually forgotten. McKenzie had actually carried out hundreds of projects for Saudi Arabia, including the country's surveillance operations. They were also tasked with identifying the most prominent Saudi dissident on social media. The list of targets included a close associate of Jamal Kosigible, the dissident who was eventually assassinated. The United Nations has just issued its report on the murder of Jamal Hashajji. The Saudi journalist was killed in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October last year. The CIA and some Western countries believe Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman, Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, ordered the killing. Saudi officials have always denied this. Others involved were arrested or hounded by law enforcement and this is still just scratching the surface of their work across the globe. In China, their operation spanned nearly three decades. McKenzie co-founded the Urban China Initiative which researched smart cities and brought China's urbanization to the next level. A McKenzie partner helped them work out how China could dominate tech with robotics, AI, and data. Over in Russia, they were contracted with the state-owned arms company Rosstec, as well as Kremlin linked banks. Rosstec supplies Putin's military and is run by a former KGB officer who served alongside him. And all that while the US military was paying them over $480 million on the F-35 fighter program, while also on American naval bases and on Air Force missile command. So, they helped design Russia and China strategy and then got paid to counter it. Why did you advise on 22 of the 100 biggest Chinese state-owned enterprises? [music] >> That number I don't believe is accurate, Senator. >> It doesn't have anything to do with money, does it? >> I don't believe that number is accurate. Senator, >> how much money do you make off the United States government? >> I don't know the size of our work with the US government. Senator, >> in 2021, you made more than $850 million in consulting work for the federal government with the Department of Defense as your top client. You can't forget their infamous involvement in South Africa where they got caught up in allegations surrounding the president essentially corrupting the entire country. They got hold of confidential information and used it as leverage to make millions of dollars. When exposed, they went and denied it all. We've examined all the evidence we could find about our work for ESCOM. 9 million emails, hundreds of thousands of documents, including telephone logs, personal emails, financial records, and we conducted over 80 interviews. The facts are we found no evidence our firm engaged in corrupt activity. Let me repeat this as it is important. We found no evidence that our firm engaged in corrupt activity. [music] But just 4 years later, the partner at the center of it pleaded guilty to bribery. They finally admitted responsibility, repaid all fees with interest, and handed over another 62 million to South Africa. They're not deterred by these national controversies as shown in 2015 when Iran's economy was labeled as a trillion dollar growth opportunity. That opportunity is currently a war zone and we all know how profitable that is for the right people. The thing you realize with McKenzie is their work always comes across as a pure screw-up where no one benefits. But someone somewhere is making generational wealth and the consequences are rarely as accidental as they appear. They serve a lot of clients with really harmful effects. They know exactly what the repercussions are going to be and then they say, "We're going to do it anyway." [music] And that tells you all you need to know about the firm. Peel back the layers and you eventually find the insane power of an innermost circle they've built over almost 100 years because behind the army of suits is an influence unlike any company on the planet. [music] Ta how one of the McKenzie consultants on their Pentagon projects was Pete Puda Judge who right now is one of the front runners to be the next Democratic candidate for president. He was 25 at the time and his client list included the Department of Defense, the US Postal Service and a health insurer called Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan. 2 years after he worked on finding savings there, Blue Cross cut a thousand jobs and asked the state for permission to raise individual premiums by 55%. That was 418,000 people, about half of them pensioners. Now he turns up on podcasts like an enlightened man. >> Not whether they exist, it's having too much power. It's it's being able to turn economic power into political power and [music] then using that power to get even more wealth. whole lot of people who didn't just lose their jobs, never recovered their sense of identity. >> But the McKenzie alumni runs much deeper than this. Media CEOs and executives from the BBC, CNBC, Disney, and ITV, healthcare leaders like FISA's Amir Malik, who ran McKenzie's entire US operation for 25 years, which makes sense because McKenzie was all over the pandemic response, taking hundreds of thousands of pounds of taxpayer money in the UK, too. eight banking CEOs and executives, including the woman running City Group right now, plus Morgan Stanley, HSBC, UBS, Credit Seuss, and the chief operating officer of the Bank of England, a prince of the Dutch royal family, Germany's richest woman, and the late Queen's assistant private secretary, CEOs and executives from BMW, Rolls-Royce, Door Dash, Uber, the Ford Foundation, Lego, FIFA, Ticket Master, Microsoft, Yahoo, Meta, Talk, Vodafone, and Open AI. the co-founder of match.com, the monopoly that owns Tinder Hinge, and over 40 other dating apps, the man who ran Boeing for a decade, who optimized the company for profit and helped push the 737 Max. Two crashes in 5 months, and 346 people dead. Seven Google executives, including the CEO, Sundai Pachchai, Peter Atier, who we've covered before due to his connections to Epstein and his friendship with Joe Rogan, a handful of Hollywood screenwriters, even the Clinton's own daughter, Chelsea Clinton, and finally at least 47 prominent politicians, the sitting prime minister of Greece, a former British foreign secretary, a former US national security adviser, the EU's climate commissioner, and a sitting US senator. It's really a long, endless, and stunning list, but it's super dark now that you know the dark way ethics are twisted inside the organization itself and the impact and destruction it's done to our society. And for all the scary things about them and what they do, that is probably the scariest thing about McKenzie. Because they aren't only making highstakes decisions that judge lives in a mathematical equation, but they're also cooking up the decision makers of our world within the belly of their corporate machine. In fact, there was a Channel 4 UK documentary in 1999 where they went behind the scenes in McKenzie's recruitment stage. At one point, they started joking around about laying workers off in a training exercise. Even in this created section of McKenzie, it looks so out of touch. That's not our communication strategy. >> I think the part that I learned the most about was actually roleplaying the client and seeing looking back at us and how sometimes we can be really offensive. That was quite insightful to just always force yourself to take their view of the world. The documentary also included a bizarre internal promo video of some kind. >> We've never been more successful than we are today. The reason, we know our strengths and our limits. Our main problem is managing our expectations. We live with the constant fear that failure is only one study away. We are insecure overachievers. But fear of failure can be a strength if it helps keep us sharp. The Machavevelian psychology on display here is now embedded in powerful institutions that affect every aspect of your life. It's the global offer you get at work. It's the job you work faithfully for years and then are cut off like you're nothing. It's the billions sucked out of the economy by those with access. It's the great wealth transfer. It's the difficult decisions governments make that prop up their allies while grinding society into dust. It's the reason our culture is so perverted. It's the prices that magically rise because they tell us we're in a recession. But the shareholder dividends grow and grow and grow. And most of all, it's the reason for the surveillance state we now all live in. But it does seem deep within the McKenzie consciousness that they do know they are the lowest of the low. They represent and strengthen surveillance states, disgraced farmer companies, authoritarian governments, and dystopian corporations. They are the opioid of the corporate world, and they've got everyone hooked. yet somehow are completely inevitable in a supply and demand economy where necessity is the mother of all invention because people crave money and power and McKenzie was invented to serve that craving. That's why they are the best team for carrying out the dirty work.
