I've always heard about George Orwell. I was taught about him at school. They would talk about him in the media. I'd hear these terms like 1984 and Big Brother thrown around, but it never truly registered. But over the years, it's dawned on me how everything he said is coming true, and it's freaking me out. So, I finally took that dusty book off my bookshelf and read every word. Then, I started looking deeper and deeper into George Orwell's life, and what I found changed my perception of everything. This video is going to show you every Orwell prediction and warning. The warnings that have led to the CIA rewriting his stories. The warnings that if you read will put you on a watch list by the UK government. We're going to talk about the real George Orwell, the man the education system and media deliberately hides from you. At the start of his life, like anyone, George Orwell wasn't that anti-establishment. In fact, he was born Eric Arthur Blair into a fairly well-off family. But even just as a child, he was aware of the world, publishing a patriotic war poem in a local newspaper as a kid, as his childhood was spent during World War I, where he realized everyone around him was ranked based on their inadequacy, with humiliation used as a method of control and persuasive institutional cruelty was the norm. His friends said they came to respect him for his quirky, headstrong personality that carried forward in his life. And I'd been with Orwell, he was walking just behind me and he saw me disappear and instead of walking on as many sort of politic little boys would have done, he came in there. He opened the door and when he came in, he saw the [music] bigger of these two bullies and he simply just went for him. He gave him one sort of terrific [music] punch. And he had a kind of morbid curiosity that tells us a lot about his way of thinking. He liked these very morbid uh stories about uh mysterious plagues and illnesses. He liked these fearful moral morbid moral questions like uh [music] would you drink a pint of blood to save your father? Orwell said himself how he felt like he was carrying around ideas that he could not express for fear of the repercussions. And it was these outlandish ideas that would be his lifelong warnings. And he would go to insane lengths to make sure we discovered them. But first, he would have to live through them. You see, despite attending Eaton, one of the most coveted private schools in England, he would go through a very tough life. His first experience of this would be with the Imperial Police in British controlled Burma, where he would experience the ugly side of power for the first time, though not on the side you would associate him with. In fact, he was part of everything he would end up opposing. In fact, his own internal monologue from the time showed us how the cog started turning inside of him. In an early essay called Shooting an Elephant, he wrote that imperialism was an evil thing and the sooner I chucked my job and got out of it, the better. Theoretically and secretly, of course, I was all for the Burmese and all against their oppressors, the British. As for the job I was doing, I hated it more bitterly than I can perhaps make clear because the British Empire in some way was the first massive conglomerate. Orwell was a junior officer in a provincial town enforcing their rules, [music] and he was starting to hate what it represented. We then see the key turning point in George Orwell's life that led him to give us the warnings we all appreciate today. He recounts a working elephant that escaped and killed a man. George Orwell as the officer is expected to handle this. So, he sends for a rifle. But by the time he finds the animal, it's calm, grazing, and obviously no longer dangerous. And he really has no wish to kill this beautiful creature. The problem is a crowd of 2,000 people gathered behind him to watch the elephant get shot. The pressure begins to bite. He has to be the leader, the white man with the gun. But he's really just an absurd puppet in a really absurd situation. So he reluctantly shoots the elephant and plays his role in the hierarchy. This was something that anyone else would have embraced at the time. But George Orwell instead concluded that when men turn into tyrants, it's his own freedom that he destroys. It's the exact same reason why you're playing a role in society. all with this constant unseen pressure behind you to act in a certain way where being yourself is a risk and that puts a target on your back. It's probably why you try to blend in and do what you're told as that feels like the safest way to progress. It's why you're constantly told to be yourself, but only if that looks like the same as everyone else. George really showed how we were becoming a society of lers from the top to the bottom of society. From the journalists and politicians instantly going back on their words when it suits them like puppets without real principles, blindly following the view they need to stay relevant. Or the tech CEOs doing constant media suck at saying the same scripted lines time after time. AI could eliminate half of all entrylevel white collar jobs in the next 1 to 5 years. That was a year ago. Is it still 50% or is it higher? I don't know exactly, but I'm I'm still I'm still pretty concerned. But but AI and humanoid robots will actually eliminate poverty. I think in the short term it will destroy a lot of jobs. There will come a point where no job is needed. You know, I think AI will probably like most likely sort of lead to the end of the world, but in the meantime, uh there will be great companies created with serious machine learning or even just with regular people where an enormous amount of people are employed doing work they privately believe is completely fake and pointless. In fact, most people around you and maybe yourself believe your job is essentially just an illusion where you're doing tasks for a company that makes money for a economy. Like George Orwell pulling the trigger on that elephant, the entire system is founded on a performative lie. Which is probably why when George Orwell came back from Burma, he would do the complete opposite of anyone wanting to climb up the power ladder by instead coming back home and deliberately climbing down the ladder instead. in between homeless shelters where he would do lower workingclass jobs where he eventually found himself in the lowest possible position in a grand Paris hotel where his experience would amount to his first full book down and out in Paris and London and it was also the first time he became known with his pen name George Orwell as he foresaw that in the future this would be essential to protect his family from what he was about to unleash. One of the grueling jobs he chose out was to be a dishwasher buried in the heat and grease of the hotel's underbelly. On the other side, he would look out to the immaculate waiters carrying the performance of effortless luxury to the elites who would never want to see the inside of the hotel. The things he saw during this period were so dark that it would influence everything else about his world view [music] for years to come. One of his first observations is that most of the work people do isn't necessary at all. All the performance in theater was really just a glamorous facade hiding the misery. In the book, he really just predicts what we've come to call great marketing. We saw it with Google marketing themselves under the slogan, don't be evil, for years and open AI marketing their technology for the greater good of humanity. All the food brands you buy have different ethical values, but they're either owned by Nestle or Uni Liver. He told us how a society would trap people in exhausting, pointless work when it doesn't need to. And he decides that exhaustion has a lot to do with it. Someone with spare time and spare energy might start to think and someone who thinks might start to ask questions. Aongu is a slave and a wasted slave doing stupid and largely unnecessary work. He is kept at work ultimately [music] because of a vague feeling that he would be dangerous if he had leisure. And it's hard not to feel the exact same way as George Orwell here. I mean, how often do you get [music] time to actually think? And what happens when you actually do stop and think or when you're alone in the dark trying to sleep? What are those voices in your head trying to tell you? Maybe that's the only time when you actually have real undistracted thoughts finally woring around in your head. When you're actually confronted about the dark nature of our future. When you finally realize you're not where you want to be. And it's actually in these moments that you want to change your life. But the trouble is we now have too many opportunities to terminate all of these moments. So just the same as Orwell thoughts back then, think of what this achieves for those in power. I believe that this instinct to perpetuate useless work is at bottom simply fear of the mob. The mob is such low animals that they would be dangerous if they had leisure. It is safer to keep them too busy to think. I mean, honestly, in just day-to-day life, you're probably way too preoccupied to think about challenging the status quo or even move outside the lane set for us. The Harvard professor Arthur C. Brooks explains why we should embrace the boredom that's at a premium in our lives. When you think about nothing, well, your mind wanders and thinks [music] about, for example, big questions of meaning in your life. What does my life mean? You go to kind of uncomfortable existential questions when you're [music] bored. That turns out to be incredibly important, incredibly good. And he says why this is so much worse now than Orwell could have ever dreamed of when writing that first novel. We figured out a way to eliminate boredom. We've been [music] able almost completely to shut off the default mode network in our brains. How? The answer is that thing in your pocket with a screen which you take out even when you're standing on the street corner waiting for the light to change is like I might have to wait here for 15 seconds. Every inch of your day is filled with stimulus and illusions until the very last reel before you can't even watch any more videos as you close your eyes. Even Claude will admit now how cataclysmic this really is, arguing that the collapse of unstructured time has changed the world for the worse above all else. Well, after realizing this with a stint in the hotel, it was 1936 when George Orwell went to the north of England. He wanted to be in the mining towns of Lanasher and Yorkshire to see how the poorest people in the country lived after the industrial revolution. He lived alongside them and it culminated in his second book titled The Road to Wigan Pier. Back then, coal mining was vital to the UK and was some of the most feared work around, as you'd crawl for miles through dark tunnels that could collapse at any time, inhaling tons of [music] dust and coughing and spluttering as you work long shifts in the intense heat of the underground. It was in this time when George Orwell really realized how much everyone takes for granted the cushioned, oblivious world above. Every building, every device, and every gadget we own, every car, every infrastructure system powering our modern lives is forged in grueling environments that most will never see. He called the minor a kariatid, one of those stone figures holding up the roof of an ancient building. The kariatids of today are the same men working the bluecollar jobs or on the farms. The kiatids are the millions of low paid laborers slaving away in Africa and Asia to build AI training data for a trillion dollar company. Look around and the society you live in is dependent on the invisible. [music] And so you can actually see how these two big pieces come together in Orwell's life at this very moment. He'd first realized that exhausting repetitive work prevented freedom of thought for those at the bottom. And now he realized that the man at the top with all the comforts in the world never asks about the foundation they are standing on. People never look up and they never really look down. But there's a twist in this book that's often overlooked. You see, until now, George Orwell was very pro- socialist. In fact, he was a socialist, but that was about to morph into pure anti-power. And you can see it happen around this period. You see, this book about his time in the north of England was commissioned by the Leftbook Club, who offered him a large sum of money for some powerful socialist propaganda. And so, the first half of the book achieves this goal. But then, in the second half, he turns on his own side. Socialists were promising that the machines would eventually end work like mining. And George Orwell believed them. He just seen men doing awful, horrible work, and he wanted this to end. But then he also had to wonder, what is the endgame here? A machine exists to take a job off a person. And he knew it wouldn't end with mining. It would eventually swallow up everything. There is really no reason why a human being should do more than eat, drink, sleep, breathe, and procreate. Everything else could be done for him by machinery. Therefore, the logical end of mechanical progress [music] is to reduce the human being to something resembling a brain in a bottle. That's one of the many terms he coined way before technology made it so real. It was so real that the publisher even asked him to cut the whole second half [music] out and he refused. And this would be the first of many other fights to get his warnings out. We now know that Orwell was right about this too and about much more than this point suggests. AI replacing our jobs is obviously part of it, but it's merely the start of something way deeper. We use AI to even think for us now, like a second brain, [music] and it's literally switching off our own brains. In 2025, MIT measured 54 people writing essays. Some on their own, some with Google, some with Chatty BT. Your brain, when you think for yourself, lights up across the board. Your brain using Chachi BT is darker and dimmer. Kids growing up with AI are proven to be less creative and less intelligent than ever. Many can't even read properly or tell the time on an analog or 24-hour clock. So, of course, AI is stealing our jobs, but really, it's stealing our ability to think. Then after leaving the mining communities, Orwell wanted to push things up another gear altogether. And that saw him plunge deeper into the darkest corners of the human experience, which would almost cost him his entire life. In 1936, Spain was fracturing in two. He had a young elected left-wing government [music] and a general named Francisco Franco who was leading the army in a revolt to bring it down. Franco was backed by Hitler and Mussolini while the government on the other side was endorsed by the Soviet Union. For much of Europe, this was the moment the fight against fascism turned real. So thousands flooded to Spain to join the fight. It was a terrible, bloody, bitter conflict that became the forgotten war ahead of World War II. George Orwell then joined a militia fighting against General Franco, where he would spend months in the trenches on the North and Spanish front until a sniper shot him through the throat. Miraculously, he lived, though his voice never fully healed. Roughly speaking, it was the sensation of being at the center of an explosion. There seemed to be a loud bang and a blinding flash of light all around me, and I felt a tremendous shock. No pain, only a violent shock such as you get from an electric terminal. With its a sense of utter weakness, a feeling of being stricken and shriveled up to nothing. But even though heading to war is kind of badass of Orwell, he wouldn't want you to think he was a naturalb born killer. His novel and his friends confirmed he preferred acting more as a peacekeeper. In the Spanish Civil War, he only fired his gun once. And then on another occasion when there was street fighting in Barcelona, he actually managed to organize a sort of armistice so that people temporarily stopped firing. Until this chapter of his life, Orwell had not really brushed against the power of a whole government. But that was about to change while he was on the front lines. The government side was a mix of socialists, anarchists, and communists. And the communist wing, backed by Stalin, wanted all of it under its control. So partway through, they pivoted on their own allies, including the faction Orwell was fighting with. Orwell's militia was outlawed and branded a nest of fascist spies, and its leaders were hunted down and shot. He'd come to fight fascism and was now wanted as a fascist by his own side. So he and his wife had to sneak out of the country to stay alive. At the time, there was also a strong communist force slowly poisoning British media. So when Orwell returned home, he'd found out they backed Stalin and turned on the militia who died liberating Spain. The media would then conveniently blank out all the sacrifices made by him and his comrades and even said the friends he'd lost were cowards. Orwell was enraged about the concept of objective truth fading from the news and wrote a poem about the betrayal. Your name and your deeds were forgotten before your bones were dry. And the lie that slew you is buried under a deeper lie. Incidentally, one of those papers that twisted the truth about Spain still exists today. It is known as the New Statesman. Orwell gave them the real story about Stalin's power move, but the editor at the time replied, "It is an unfortunate fact that any hostile criticism of the present Russian regime is liable to be taken as propaganda against socialism." Wwell never forgave them or the rest of the British media as he finally saw how controlling a population means controlling what they're allowed to know, which would then be the defining theme of 1984. This video is sponsored by HS3. If you've ever wondered how a website actually gets its traffic, this is one of the easiest ways I found to look behind the scenes. HS3 lets you plug in almost any website and instantly see estimated Google traffic, which pages bring in the most visitors, and even what people are searching for to find that site. For example, let's take a look at Reddit. Within seconds, you can see roughly how much search traffic it gets, [music] which pages or videos perform the best, and what search terms are driving people there. You can also use the keyword generator to see what people are actually typing into [music] Google, YouTube, or even Amazon. If you've ever wanted to know what topics people are genuinely interested in, [music] not just what's trending on social media, it's incredibly useful. Another feature I like is the backlink checker, [music] which lets you see what other websites are linking to a page. It's a really simple way to understand how information spreads online and how different sites connect to one another. The best part is that this isn't one of those free trials that asks you for your credit card [music] 5 seconds later. These tools are genuinely free to use. No trial, no payment information required. HRFS has been building SEO and website research tools for more than 14 years and now they've made some of their most useful tools available to everyone. So, if you want to try it for yourself, head over to hrefs.com/free or just click the link in the description below. Then drop in your own website, your favorite creator, or any site you're curious about and see what's actually driving their traffic. where the main character Winston has a job to operate a slot in the wall called the memory hole where you drop yesterday's unwanted facts into it and watch them carried off to a furnace. A concept that today we've turned into a vast algorithmic system where unwanted facts are shadowbanned, shoveled under the noise or just simply deleted from the platforms entirely. When Rald Doll's estate was bought by Netflix for £500 million, words like fat and ugly were then cut from his books. Small men became small people and they added sentences he never wrote. The James Bond novels and countless others also suffered the same fate. June 2020, weeks after George Floyd, studios went through their back catalogs looking for blackface and started cutting it out entirely. Community even lost a whole episode where Ken darkens his skin to play a dark elf. And then Netflix renumbered the whole season so the gap wouldn't show. The office cut a shot from an episode 9 years old. 30 Rock Lost four, Scrubs 3, and Little Britain was heavily edited despite perioding bigots, and anything like Can't Fly With Me was just completely removed from every platform. But it gets way, way crazier when you look at what they even do to George Orwell's own work. Like in 2009 when Amazon would secretly delete Kindle books their users had already paid for. And just guess what those books were? Well, two of the titles were 1984 and Animal Farm, which is peak irony since in 1984, one of the party's weapons is language itself, which is even crazier when you realize the British government even labeled 1984 as extremist material. In fact, the British government is now drafting rules to force YouTube and Tik Tok to push approved broadcasters like the BBC to the top of your recommendations during major events and emergencies. YouTubers literally warned British creators that the rules could force it to recommend state approved channels over the videos people choose to watch. Suddenly, the algorithm doesn't give you videos that you like. It recommends you videos that the government wants you to watch. And all of this comes wrapped in the language of fighting misinformation. Like when the BBC released their propagandous advert for their fact-checking service days after airing docked videos of Trump. The more you try to drown out reality, the harder we'll work to verify the fact. And with our expertise, you have nowhere to hide. Charged far. We will find your slight of hand and expose. [music] Faceless rumors began spreading. So no matter how hard it gets, we'll never give up. We'll be watching. We'll be ready because it's the pursuit of truth that gives us our calling. The fight for truth is on. Despite being deeply skeptical of the media, Orwell actually joined the BBC as a writer at the outset of World War II. For two years during the war, he was pouring his writing skills into propaganda aimed at India to keep the colony on side. In this job, he learned very directly how to blur a sentence for an ideological purpose. He was criticized a lot for doing this. He claimed he had a lung problem, which meant he couldn't fight, but he said he wanted to play devil's advocate and immerse himself in the media machine where he ultimately hated every minute and called them wasted years. But then again, the world of 1984 would have been impossible without that experience. The BBC's own broadcasting house became the Ministry of Truth, and Room 101, the room where the party breaks a man using the thing he fears most in the world, was a real BBC conference room. The BBC later turned its own indictment in 1984 [music] into light entertainment with a panel show called Room 101, where comedians pick things they find mildly annoying and co-sign them to the torture chamber for laughs. This way they can obscure the real message of 1984, the warning that people should really be skeptical of what the BBC says is truth. And now it's just turned into a funny, light-hearted game. We also see this with the reality TV show Big Brother, where they'll stick celebrities in a house and watch them tear each other apart. It's one of the first major reality TV shows and again obscures some of Orwell's most important warnings. And funnily enough, even the BBC's own documentary points this out. In a few years of the book coming out in the 1950s, people were talking about the double think and the thought police and big brother. And obviously over time that means that you get these very bizarre [music] sort of travesties of of of the meaning. You know the big brother TV series or the BBC TV [music] series Room 101. When you do see these words, go back to the text. And the comments will show you how people feel about this clip. But this isn't just the BBC. The very institutions Orwell was deeply skeptical of now use his ideas to their advantage to make them look better than their opposition as if they're not cut from the same cloth. We're in a moment right now in this country where our government itself [music] is pushing out false information. Something that George Orwell warned us about years ago. Time and again as we cover politics these days and especially the rise of socialism and the increasing authoritarianism and intolerance [music] you see on the left I'm reminded of George Orwell's classic novel 1984 which introduced the world to Big Brother is watching you and many other ideas and expressions [music] that have entered our culture. Orwell's next essay was politics and the English language explaining how words are dangerous when orchestrated through the mouthpieces of the media. His theory was how government and their media codify nuanced ideas in simple language for misdirection. Political language is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable and to give an appearance of solidity to pure [music] wind. Censorship on social media platforms follows Orwell's rule exactly. Unalived is the perfect example. It makes killing sound more respectable while politicians today are dumbing down language to the most basic idiocracy levels possible. that were very very not good for our nation. We first saw this when America bombed Libya in 2011. The White House needed this not to be a war because a war needs Congress. So the deputy national security adviser called it kinetic military action. When CNN covered the Kenosha riots in 2020, the headline should have been an officer shot a man seven times in the back, but they chose fiery but mostly peaceful protests after police shooting. When the Washington Post reported the death of the leader of ISIS, the headline called him an austere religious scholar and they only changed it after the backlash. And on Gaza, analysts keep finding how Israelis are killed while Palestinians die. A Reuters headline read that his own journalist was killed in missile fire from the direction of Israel. A New York Times headline over a story about soldiers shooting civilians queuing for food read, "Deedly a deliveries in Gaza." In the pandemic, refusing a vaccine became vaccine hesitancy like a psychological condition. Special language is designed to nudge the population towards an outcome. And governments have known the powers of this for years. The UK purpose-built a government team to do it [music] called the behavioral insights team, also known as the nudge unit. The nudge unit's job is to change how citizens behave without passing laws or telling anyone. They do this by rewarding content and reordering choices so that people picked what the state preferred. It worked so incredibly well that it was spun out into a commercial company and sold its methods to governments around the world. Orwell's time back in Spain had also inspired him to write one of his most famous books, which he set out to publish after leaving the BBC. He'd watched a revolution turn on its own people. And so he thought this would make a great children's book. Animal Farm is about animals living under the control of a farmer, hatching a plot to take them over and win their freedom. They mastermind the plan, drive the farmer out, and begin to run the farm themselves. The pigs are now the ones running the farm. And by the last page, they're walking on two legs, dressed in the farmer's clothes, drinking with the men, and the other animals cannot tell who is who. He wrote, [music] "All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others. The creatures outside looked from pig to man and from man to pig and from pig to man again. But already it was impossible to say which was which. The revolution had swapped one dictator for another. Something which has happened too many times in human history to bother counting and something that happens all through the corporate world and even with other elites, actors [music] and comedians. Obviously this was not a safe message for the establishment. So getting it into print was incredibly hard. It was 1944 and Stalin was Britain's wartime ally, which meant four of the big publishing houses all turned it down. But instead of editing the story, Orwell doubled down and added this preface to the book. The sinister fact about literary censorship in England is that it's largely voluntary. Unpopular ideas can be silenced and inconvenient facts kept dark without the need for any official ban. At any given moment, there is an orthodoxy, a body of ideas which it is assumed all right-thinking people will accept without question. It is not exactly forbidden to say this that of the other, but it is not done to say it. Anyone who challenges the prevailing orthodoxy finds himself silenced with surprising effectiveness. A small publisher named Seeker and Warberg finally published the book in August 1945, and it sold out in days, but they didn't publish the preface. And so, this wasn't unearthed from Orwell's archives for another 30 years. And the Animal Farm story didn't end there. After Orwell died, the film rights were purchased by two men, and both were undercover CIA agents. This is 1954, the height of the Cold War and the Red Scare, when fear of communism was at its peak. So, the CIA funded the entire animation, hiring British animators to avoid American studios, and rewrote the ending to convey the animals triumphantly, overthrowing the pics. Watch how they stormed the building, and how it doesn't imply the same message as the book at all. The new version reinforces the division between good and bad. It creates a moral precedent that corrupt systems can be overthrown and replaced with something better, which is a really comforting thought until you realize it's exactly the story the CIA tells every time [music] it topples a government. The intelligence officer Eh Howard Hunt later admitted the film was carefully tweaked to heighten [music] the anti-communist message. For not the first time, Orwell's work was directly used as propaganda. And although it was originally aimed at adults, Animal Farm found its primary audience in schools across the US and Europe. By then, the state and media were already deeply intertwined. [music] Governments had correctly identified that the media was the best way to access the minds of the public, exactly as Orwell had predicted. After this monumental success, [music] Orwell was known around the world and heading towards his final chapter. And you've got to realize by now his stories captured the imaginations of millions. And he was a famous public intellectual. He was now doing numerous radio shows and panels, but since most of it was transmitted live, there isn't a single archive of his public appearances. But even then, I can guarantee you that every single person over the age of about 60 in the UK knows about George Orwell and his ideas. After spending decades upon decades writing, he was finally getting the recognition he deserved. At this point, he was given the confidence to explore everything he wanted to warn us about, and one idea was well and truly brewing in his head, 1984. But between that and Animal Farm, he would also write a short essay called You and the Atombbomb, one of the most prophetic of any of his works. Inspired by his career as a war correspondent, visiting war torn cities across Europe. After it seemed like the horrors of war were behind the West, the USA dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, marking the end of one horrifying arms race and the beginning of a new one. Orwell immediately predicted the endgame that we now call MAD, or mutually assured destruction. His theory was when a weapon is cheap, power is diffused and hard to control. History is littered with revolution started by little more than an angry armed mob. When a weapon costs a fortune and needs an industrial state behind it, power concentrates. The atom bomb was the most expensive object ever made. He imagines two or three monstrous superstates, each possessed of a weapon by which millions of people can be wiped out in a few seconds, dividing the world between them. But they wouldn't use them because to [music] use them would be to annihilate the entire planet. The result, he said, is a peace that is no peace. [music] Where every superpower is in a permanent state of cold war with its neighbors. Yes, Orwell was the first to use the phrase cold war [music] in the context we use it today. All of these ideas were about to become part of his magnumopus, the defining anti- athoritarian work of human history. We've covered it in massive death before because it truly is one of the most remarkable works. You know, we all associate 1984 with the vision of an authoritarian dystopia. But to truly understand it, like very few people do, you really need to look beyond the dystopia and at the exact opposite of the world 1984 is known for. Because Orwell's dystopian world is much more complex than it first looks. So I ask, what does the word utopia mean to you? Because it is only then that you will understand what you're inside right now. No two definitions are quite the same. Some will imagine peaceful global coexistence. Others will imagine national sovereignty and isolation. Some will imagine no work, just pure free time to do whatever they want. Others would go completely insane in that environment. And that is the first reason why the concept of a utopia is flawed and begins to collapse into the government's hands. Orwell lived in an era where governments and powerful people dreamt of building a perfect society the same as they do today. They did everything to market it to the population, but he saw straight through it. To him, the perfect society and the nightmare society are built from the same components. Both require mass consensus and enforcement. Both require the same total administration of a human life, and both would differ only in the expression of those who held control. In an essay bluntly titled, "Can socialists be happy?" He said how every utopia looks static and bloodless, devoid of the qualities humans truly need, he saw how a creature with nothing left to overcome no longer needs to be free. Humans have successfully evolved due to our incredible ability to survive and constant comfort damages that primal instinct. It takes away what nature called our will to power. The innate urge inside of you for self-affirmation, growth, mastery, and the full realization of your potential. Nearly all creators of utopia have resembled the man who has toothache and therefore think happiness consists in not having toothache. To show you this in action, we only need to look at the philosopher Robert Nosnik's experience machine where he asks you to imagine a system that would feed you a lifetime of flawless pleasure personalized to you and your desires. It would give you every experience you ever wanted, indistinguishable from the real thing, and then you would never remember what life was like before. His bet was that you would refuse. He said, "A person wants to do things, not merely be handed a utopia that asks nothing of you." When researchers evade people on this thought experiment, the answer always turned out to depend entirely on the context. Asked in the way Nosnik designed the question and only one in six would choose to plug in. This was then later validated by the effort paradox that shows how humans and other animals value a reward when they have to work for it and will often choose the harder option precisely because it cost them something to earn it. You might think you hate building flat pack furniture, but the IKEA effect shows how people prized the wobbly shelf they assembled themselves over the flawless one they bought readymade. Orwell crucially saw that this instinct could be trained out of a person. In 1984, the party works to sever the link between effort and reward. Nothing a citizen does is allowed to matter. The protagonist Winston's whole world is intentionally arranged so that trying leads to dead ends. We are living in the world he predicted. Why cook when Uber Eatats arrives in minutes? Why learn the route when Google Maps knows it? Why turn your mind over with a hard question when Chanty BT is on your home screen? Each shortcut is just a small mercy, but they collectively rob us of everything that makes us human. And all of these things were then designed by the tech elite who promise us a utopia. Orwell realized this when he was suddenly creeped out by a holiday advert. Instead of the warm glow you're meant to feel, all he felt was cringe. because he says most of what people in the future call having a good time is really just switching off. He compares it to the rare experiences that make us feel truly alive. Think about when you gaze at the vast fathomless ocean or a monumental mountain shrouded by mist and clouds. Orwell said, "The moon is beautiful partly because we cannot reach it. [music] And the sea is impressive because one can never be sure of crossing it safely. It's terrifying, making us feel tiny and humbling us." Now, think of a place that we always talk about on the channel like Dubai, which is designed to make humans the center of the universe. It's a city that shouldn't physically exist with no real history, no real nature, indoor ski slopes, constant shopping malls, penguins living in fake Arctic conditions, giant imported palms built on manufactured islands, all working to satisfy our endless modern impulses. And we've turned beautiful places like Bali into western holes filled with co-working stations and sufferable digital nomads, matches, and core sellers along with a sprinkle of 5 a.m. running clubs that ban the locals. Orwell wrote about the exact sensation you have walking around a manufactured place like Dubai or a Miami. In another of Orwell's novels, Coming Up for Air, the protagonist, George Bowling, a middle-aged insurance salesman who can feel the coming war, stops at a bar in London and orders a hot dog. He bites in and is disgusted. He realizes the sausage is packed with fake fishy meat because fish is now cheaper. It dawns on him how his life has been watered down and stripped of everything he loves. The local pond he fished as a boy has been drained and turned into a rubbish tip. The fields flattened under rows of identical new houses. Today we live in this world but on steroids. The same brutalist glossy towers. The stagnant air of misery and anxiety. The same gray housing estates. The same slop chains on every street from the pyramids of Egypt to near Machu Picchu, the Pacific Islands and the Arctic Circle where everything beautiful is reduced to mechanical scientific terms. The loving touches of our world hollowed out. No billionaire philanthropy back into our streets. No beautiful libraries to inspire a next generation. No Victorian street lamps that were made with pure art in its own right where we valued art and beauty of a materialistic impulse. America was once home to some of the most spectacular buildings in history which mirrored the aspirational freedoming spirit that enveloped the entire country. And then they demolished them and replaced them all with giant strip malls and highways. Every tech company is now using the same curved branding, the same faint pastel pallets for everything. Look at these crazy interesting Sony PlayStation adverts from 2000. Now look at the equivalent today. The designer Thomas Heatherwick calls it a blandemic. Orwell was right. Quality costs money, so we cut [music] it. Beauty is expensive and valuable, so we've gutted it out. Thinking purely in profit margins, the optimized street and the optimized human being are one of the same. It's why our idols and elites say they happily don't have any self-reflection or inner thoughts. It's against this vision for our future and his own entire life experience that Orwell started to write 1984 where Britain's gone and in its place is airirstrip one decaying providence of a vast superstate called Oceanana. The party controls everything and its face is everywhere in the form of big brother staring down from the walls beneath four words that have escaped the book and entered real life. Big Brother is watching you. Winston Smith is 39, though he already feels like an old man. He works at the Ministry of Truth, which of course manufactures lies. Every day, he takes old newspaper [music] articles and rewrites them so the past always agrees with whatever the party happens to be saying today. If the party predicted chocolate rations would rise and they actually fell, Winston changes the original prediction and the original is incinerated. And because every surviving record now [music] says the same thing, the party can claim it's never been wrong. Winston begins to rebel, but there's no heroic uprising. At first, his crimes are almost embarrassingly small. He buys an old diary and writes down what he thinks, but that alone could get him killed. So he wanders through the poorer district searching for someone old enough to remember what life was like before the party. But nobody can answer him. Their memories are broken, scattered, or buried beneath years of propaganda. Then he meets Julia and falls in love, and that's a crime, too. The party doesn't want people forming loyalties it can't control. Love competes with big brother. Friendship competes with big brother. Family competes with big brother. Even sexual desire is dangerous because it gives people a private source of happiness the state didn't provide. Winston and Julia rent a little room above an antique shop. There's no visible telescreen. There's a real bed, an old clock, and a glass paper weight with a piece of coral trapped inside it. These useless little objects mean everything to Winston, but it turns out the room's [music] a trap. They're captured, and Winston is then tortured for months. When beating, starvation, and electric shock still can't completely break Winston. They take him to room 101. Room 101 isn't one fixed torture chamber. It's different for everyone because it contains your darkest ever fear. For Winston, it's rats. So, they strap a cave of starving rats to his face. That's when he finally breaks and turns on the love of his life, Julia. So, really, he is forced to break himself. The story then ends with Winston sitting alone. [music] He's betrayed everything and loves Big Brother. It's easy to miss how Winston is actually one of the lucky ones at the start because he isn't a part of the segment of the population called the pros. The prolls are the ordinary population that make up around 85% of society. And the party is well aware that if they ever become conscious of their own power, the whole system would collapse. So they're fed bread and circuses. They're fed cheap alcohol, gambling, adult content, sentimental stories, manufactured gossip, and endless disposable entertainment. Songs are then written by machines. Novels are assembled automatically. Culture is produced at scale without magical meaning. Not to make people think, but to prevent thought from ever beginning. It's industrial brain rot of remarkably the same variety we're surrounded by right now. I mean, honestly, just look at the videos recommended to you right next to this video and you'll see exactly what we're talking about here. In fact, in some ways, AI has become the master technology enabling that world at a scale Orwell tried his best to imagine. But it's really the telescreen that was miles ahead of its time as Orwell imagined it as so much more than a CCTV camera. Even if you don't have a camera pointing at you right now, it's definitely certain that you're being watched. I mean, if you just talk about anything, you'll go on Instagram or Tik Tok and suddenly you're recommended all these videos about the very thing you were just speaking about. I mean, do you actually think or feel that you can get privacy anywhere at all? Now you live as all were right from habitat that becomes instinct in the assumption that every sound you made was overheard and except in darkness every movement scrutinized. I mean how many times have you talked about something only for your phone to constantly give you these creepy adverts or content related to it. All of this ultimately keeps us confined while forcing you to police yourself. You know there's cameras and data harvesters everywhere. Even the AI you talk to every day is learning everything about you to sell it to someone. It's no wonder Palantis stock price is reaching all-time highs. The English philosopher Jeremy Bentham designed a prison he named the Ponoptagon. A ring of cells around a single central tower so one guard could see into every cell, but no prisoner could see into the tower. The prisoner assumes he's always watched and keeps himself in line for free around the clock. Bentham said the tower didn't even need a guard inside of it. Fukao said years later that this is precisely how modern power works. You'd think they need to build the tower and force you inside, but I mean, just look around you and you'll see that you're living inside of it already. Flock cameras are now beaming your position to tech nerds in some office. You post your morning run from Straa and it draws a clean line to your front door. Your car is now surveilling you to adjust your insurance based on your behaviors. The police now operate cameras that scan every face on the street and check them against the watch list in real time. Palanteer, Oracle, Flock, Amazon Ring, smart devices like Fitbit, and the Aura Ring. This is all a private surveillance complex wired into government. We now police ourselves, taking fewer risks because we have too many eyes on us at all times. There's certain things we can't speak about on this channel before getting everything taken from us. Gen Z won't even go out and have fun anymore because they're worried about someone filming them and going viral. Ring doorbells and nosy Facebook groups means no one steps out of line in the community, even if it is for something trivial. I once tried to rescue an injured animal from someone's front drive, and the footage ended up on a community Facebook group, which is completely humiliating to be filmed for a small and innocent act of kindness. Larry Ellison, who's in his 80s now, co-founded Oracle and is in the midst of an ungodly merger of global media titans, and he revealed the motivation. We're going to have supervision. In other words, every police officer is going to be supervised. The police will be on their best behavior because we rec we're constantly recording, watching and recording everything that's going on. Citizens will be on their best behavior because we're constantly recording and reporting everything that's going on. Sam Ultman echoed that exact thought that we'll be eternally surveiled living our lives in service to AI. We'll have no agency. It will be the unic surveillance state [music] and we know privacy and that's what it you're going to get. you're going to get great comfort, but you will have there will be nothing [music] out in the world that you'll really do nothing that really matters. It'll just kind of limit the, you know, service of the AI. In 1965, the BBC published some of the stories of Orwell from his close friends and family and closed on this exact conclusion over 50 years ago. So, think how much it's evolved since then. The nightmare of 1984 has moved on from the deliberate horror Orwell envisaged [music] to an aimless vacuous one. A pin table rather than a rack. Orwell imagined an allervading dictatorship seeking power for its own sake alone. He failed to foresee a moral, mental and spiritual fertility which made such a dictatorship unnecessary. Unimity, as it's turned out, can be more effectively induced by indifference than by chicainery and terror. What need for news speak when there's nothing to say or for double think when no one is thinking anymore? This is where the real world is arguably scarier than Orwell's. In 1984, it's all about the party. Now, you cannot tell the party apart from the mega rich corporations that serve it. While finishing the book, Orwell was only 45, but was getting very sick. He'd had tuberculosis for years, and he'd isolated himself on the remote Scottish island of Jura. The manuscript itself was extremely messy and even bloodstained. His son explains how his dad typed it all out himself at the pace of some 4,000 words a day. He couldn't find anybody to come and uh type out his rough draft. and he said it's a terrible state, terrible mess and uh but somehow there was nobody to who couldn't find anybody to come and type so he did it himself. After finishing he dragged himself off the island and went into a sanatorium where he met his final fate. He'd bought a fishing rod and propped it up at the other end of the bed for when he got better. He married for the second time in the hospital ward. His first wife had died at the age of 39. 3 months later he was dead at 46. Sadly, of course, in January 1950, when he was getting ready to go to Switzerland to recuperate, he had a massive hemorrhage during the night and uh drowned in his own home blood. Announced on the 8:00 news on the home service of of BBC, but the news reader said that um we announced the death of Eric Arth George Orwell, Eric Arthur Blair, the author of Animal Farm 194, who who died in the early hours of the morning. And this was the first time we we we heard of it. He was buried as Eric Arthur Blair in a small village in Oxfordshire. At this point, you also have to step back and ask why. He didn't need to. And yet, he built himself a very problematic, difficult life. So, why not stop at some point and take things slower? Well, he answered that himself in an essay called Why I Write, where he gives four reasons anyone writes anything. One, sheer egoism. Wanting to seem clever or to be talked about. To be remembered after death. To get back at the adults who snubbed you as a kid. Two, aesthetic enthusiasm, meaning he liked words and using them to tell stories. Three, historical impulse, meaning finding out what's true and recording it for the future. Four, political purpose, exposing power and establishment. He says, "Staying out of politics is a political position in itself and never wanted to do that." He cites a poem he wrote back in 1935. It's about a man born in the wrong century. It talks about a man who thinks if I was born 200 years ago, I'd live a simple life as a country vicar watching trees grow in my garden. But instead, I'm stuck in the industrial wasteland of the 1930s. I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls and woke to find it true. I wasn't born for an age like this. Was Smith was Jones were you? Smith and Jones are the most common surnames in England. They're used idiomatically to refer to anybody. Me, you, your friends, your family, any normal person underneath the shell of elitism encircling our society. So he's asking you directly, were you born for this age? Do you wonder if your life would be better if you live somewhere else in a different era altogether? A place without the constant pressure with no 9 to5 that eats you alive? Where you're not permanently stressed or caffeinated behind on something or worried about the future? Where your passion and hard work don't line the pockets of someone who you will never see and wants to see the world burn while they build their billionaire bunkers. But Orwell understood that we'd adapt ourselves to the horror of this age slowly but surely. like a frog being slowly boiled alive so it doesn't escape. The sucker punch of that is how Orwell's reputation protects you from Orwell. You can agree with him in principle while living in ways that would have fascinated and horrified him. We live in contradiction. We indulge our own fates with our bad habits by flicking through reels, filling our lives with surveillance devices, and paying for the products that are slowly killing us. [snorts] You can quote 1984 from a device that records your location, predicts your desires, and fills each moment before a thought has time to develop. So, he's ultimately asking you to break that cycle. And when and how you do it is down to you. There is no easy way, and he doesn't promise one. In a world where we own so little and are being minimized into nothing while the elites grow ever more powerful, he's at least asking you to trust yourself and your closest circles while remaining vigilant, aware, and ready to act. It should finally be said then, that Orwell loved his life, and the little things mattered dearly to him. He kept a diary while writing 1984 and most of it is about how many eggs the hens had laid, the different types of trees, the birds singing, what he planted, what the weather was doing. Towards the end of his life, he increasingly reverted to his origins. The little boy lived again in the middle-aged writer, as did the countryside he'd roamed over, the streams he'd filled. He wrote 11 rules of making a decent cup [music] of tea. He wrote an essay describing his perfect pub, then admitted at the end that it doesn't exist. He made toys for his own son on a workbench. He wrote about the common toaden spring and argued that noticing it was a political act because if you can still enjoy something free that nobody sold you, you're harder to control. He was grounded and not some elitist academic. All through his life, he loved that uh sort of person, didn't he? He wanted to be one himself. He wanted to have his little shop and his eccentric opinions and and be one of these English characters. It's a a bracing pessimism, a feeling that once you admit the worst, everything's a bit more fun all around. So when he tells you to hold on to something, he means that that means the pieces of your life that nobody is monetizing. His message is that life is terrifying, but also beautiful and real if you choose to look in the right places. So if you'll do anything he asks of you, remember to touch grass, guard your principles, and never forget your innermost self. If you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face forever. The moral to be drawn from this dangerous nightmare situation is a simple one. Don't let it happen. It depends on you.