(0:00) Jensen Huang joins The Besties! (1:39) Thoughts on Dario's blog, Frontier Labs calling to slow down AI, and Doomer psychology (9:58) Sensible AI regulation and RSI (16:05) Hugging Face acquisition, future of Open Source, and the race with China (22:58) President Trump calls in live to discuss the Doomer Hoax (31:29) The AI boom and Nvidia's capital allocation strategy (40:21) Nvidia's Open Source model ambitions, thoughts on Elon's Terafab Thanks to our partners for making this possible! IREN is a vertically integrated AI Cloud platform, delivering data centers, compute and software for AI training and inference.  Oracle connects the data, applications, and infrastructure that turn AI into business outcomes—with the flexibility, choice, and control to optimize as AI evolves.&nbsp; EY helps tech innovators scale from startup to exit to megacap. You build the future. We’ll handle the rest.&nbsp; Meta believes the future is for everyone. We're focused on giving every person the tools to reach their full potential and making sure the benefits of technology are distributed to all.  Keel Infrastructure owns the power, land, and connectivity that HPC and AI run on - backed by secured energy assets and established grid interconnections across North America.&nbsp; Airwallex - Agentic Global Business Accounts. Open local accounts in 70+ countries to accept payments, earn yield, pay globally, and manage spend.&nbsp; PayPal has been revolutionizing commerce globally for more than 25 years. Creating innovative experiences that make moving money, selling, and shopping simple, personalized, and secure, PayPal empowers consumers and businesses in approximately 200 markets to join and thrive in the global economy. For more information, visit&nbsp; Google for Startups connects founders with the right people, products, and best practices to help startups build faster and go further.&nbsp; Explore ideas, industries, and technologies worth understanding with Chamath every week on Learn with Me:  Follow Jensen:  Follow the besties:     Follow on X:  Follow on Instagram:  Follow on TikTok:  Follow on LinkedIn:  Intro Music Credit:   Intro Video Credit:  