[21:31] papers did that. There was no Gates or Schle Schelestein or Flacker like a a dogged investigative reporter that had the backing of his newsroom going after this. No bipartisan Senate congressional committees like you had in Katrina and 737 Max. You didn't have a standalone investigation with someone like Fineman
[21:51] or or or Kiraawa. Um, there was no sciencefunded investigation. The the NIST and the NSF launched them in these other two cases. NIH didn't fund a third-party investigation here and no massive victims lawsuit to figure out what happened. So, what went wrong? I'm going to share some thoughts with you
[22:09] and I I want you to be aware of a couple piece of information that I think are kind of new or new to be understood. Um, but I and I want to make one one qualification. This has been bothering me for a long time. I've read a ton. Um, I I'm sure there are people that are smarter than me on this, but I'm got to
[22:27] be top 1% in terms of how much information I've consumed. The first thing I would tell you is these five people were relied on as experts. You know, the first two, Francis Collins, Anthony Fouchy, Peter Dazzic runs something called the Ecoalth Alliance.
[22:42] It's a nonprofit that did viology research. Jeremy Ferrar was the head of the welcome trust that funded a lot of this stuff and went on to work at the WHO. And then Ralph Bareric is the top veriologist in the US at the University of North Carolina. What I'm here to tell you is they weren't experts. They were
[22:59] blockers. They acted exactly like FAA and Boeing and NASA did in these other situations. And I'm going to give you four reasons why I know they're blockers. First, they're verology insiders. So, as I said, there's going to be a natural instinct to circle the wagon when someone shines a spotlight on
[23:17] you. Two, they led a misinformation campaign to take us off the lead and to tell us not to search. I'm going to tell you about that in a second.
[23:27] Three, they were all outspoken gain of function advocates prior to CO coming along. And if you don't know what gain of function is, is when you take a virus and you make it intentionally more dangerous to animals or humans. They felt that that was smart to do. Obama had outlawed it. they were constantly
[23:46] promoting to try and make it more happen more often. Fauci in 2011 wrote an article in the Washington Post an editorial where he said the pros outweigh the cons. Now, if you talk to any behavioral psychologist, if you've told the world, we should definitely do this and the pros outweigh the cons.
[24:02] There's zero chance you can be impartial when it comes to figuring out what happened. Because to go home at night and think that something you did contributed to the death of 15 million people would be impossible to go to bed.
[24:15] Your brain's much more likely to trick you into just thinking it didn't happen. You wouldn't be allowed on a jury if you had that kind of of bias. And the fourth reason, and the most important reason I know they're blockers, is because they didn't search. I tell you they stopped searching and they should have been
[24:33] searching. They should still be There are people that did search. They're not at large institutions. The two on the bottom drastic is a loosely affiliated group of scientists that come together and share information. They have a website. You should follow them.
[24:49] Um it's like 20 Nick Shirley's that are all veriologists or scientists. Um, US right to know is a nonprofit that's filed the majority of the FOIA claims here. And um, you can donate to them. I have. But I want to tell you about these five heroes. They're heroes of mine that have been actively trying to find out
[25:10] what happened from the very beginning. Alina Chan was one of the first molecular biologists that that realized that the virus looks like it was designed for humans. She wrote a book with Matt Ridley. And here's some really good news. In the past couple of years, the New York Times has published two of
[25:26] her op-eds. I would rather it be the investigative team at the New York Times, but it's a start. They're really good. Read both of them. Katherine Ebon was the first person to really stick their neck out and say, "We're not looking at this the right way." She published an article, oddly in Vanity
[25:43] Fair, titled The Fight to Discover COVID Origins. And I I think the title is important because the fight was about the discovery process.
[25:52] Emily Cop worked for us right to know. She may know more than anybody. She's been the one uncovering all of these documents and we've been getting more and more documents each and every day.
[26:02] So, we're learning more. Zade Tufeki is a professor at Princeton who also writes sometimes for the New York Times. I'm going to tell you something she did recently that I think is super important. And then Allison Young wrote a book called Pandora's Gamble that looks at all of the lab leak failures
[26:20] that have happened prior to CO which is an interesting and relevant data point to study if you want to consider whether or not that was part of the problem.
[26:28] These five women have been attacked for sticking their neck out. Some of them directly by the men on the previous slide. And I think that's completely unreasonable.
[26:39] Um I think they're heroes. Now, there's two things I want to tell you about and then I'll I'll wrap it up. There's two pieces of information you should know about. I said earlier that the five experts/blockers had had created a misinformation campaign to take us off the lead. I
[27:02] think that's an understatement on what they created a highly successful misinformation campaign to convince everyone that lab that animal spillover was a decidedly determined uh cause of this and that anyone that considered a lab leak even thought about it or asked a single question was a conspiracy theorist and
[27:24] they were successful at it. They leveraged the the scientific journal community which they understood. The proximal origins paper went out like this thing was written in like a week.
[27:35] There's no way you did an investigation. They just wanted to to to get it out there and then the Lancet had a similar one. The these these papers have been cited over and over over again. If you try and like go through Wikipedia, you just always end up going back to them.
[27:50] So they were highly successful. They also somehow made this thing partisan. using the word conspiracy theory with Trump back. I don't know how it happened, but they were able to get people in their surveys and polls, people, what do you think caused COVID?
[28:05] And if you're Democrat or Republican, you have a different answer. That's nuts. Like there's no way that should be relevant in this discussion. um recently more and more of this information's come out and so you have um more more understanding of how they came to write these papers like and you can see
[28:23] inconsistencies between what they think and what they wrote. Um Zayep put this on Twitter 45 days ago and I think she chose her words very carefully. She said, "Incont incontrovertible proof of a conspiracy to cover up and deny the possibility it well may be a lab mishap orchestrated
[28:43] from the highest levels of the scientific establishment and a self-serving group of scientists who deliberat deliberately misled the public." Those are strong words. She put that up 45 days ago. It has 400,000 views and zero community notes. At least today. Maybe tomorrow we'll have some.
[29:01] Um Katherine Ebon w was more tur but equally opinionated. She calls it manufactured consensus. If you feel strongly you think you know what happened in CO you need to understand that this happened. It took people off the scent. Three years after CO the drastic team uncovered this document.
[29:20] It's called the diffuse proposal. Who's heard of the diffuse proposal? Raise your hand. This is nuts. Look it's like three people. Okay. Um, no major journals ever covered the diffuse proposal. It's um, there was a survey of scientists who who they said, "Do you what do you think caused it?" If they
[29:38] said animal spillover, they said, "Have you heard of diffuse?" Only 70 only 22% had. 78% said they had never heard of it. What's the diffuse proposal? Three years after CO drastic uncovered this document. You can go download it. It's real. Um, it was a proposal by Ecoalth Alliance, Peter Dazzic's company to that
[29:59] connects the top veriologist at Duke in North Carolina with the top veriologist at Wuhan, the the bat lady, Jun Lee. And there's a proposal that they're going to insert a fern cleavage site at the S1S2 junction of a bat corona virus because they think it'll make it more viral in animals. and it's in a document.
[30:23] I went to AI. I said, "Let's do a clean session AI." That means don't look at anything I've ever told you before. If I were interested in helping to solve the origin of CO and I was using the scientific principles of Kappa to guide me, how would I react to finding the diffuse proposal? Look at these answers.
[30:42] Direct investigational lead, highly critical, major investigative lead. Yes, that would be a high priority piece of evidence. primary document evidence, highest tier evidence class. Most people don't know about this thing. And I I would make an assertion. Had this document been exposed in January of
[31:00] 2020, we would have had a very different conversation back then. Um but it wasn't. The searchers are aware of the document. Rand Paul's aware of the document. Hopefully now you're all aware of the document. One other thing I I I think I need to say, um, if you ask these AI bots, what would you do next in
[31:19] your cappa profit process, they say you would go after documents at Duke University and University of North Carolina. And the searchers have been doing that. Unfortunately, the University of North Carolina and the state of North Carolina are blockers.
[31:33] They're refusing to deliver the documents. And I would encourage if any of you have connections to UNCC or know anyone on the board, I would encourage you to make them think about whatever they're protecting and whether that's more important than preventing the next one of these.
[31:49] Um, if you want to learn more about this, Matt Ridley just did an interview last March with Jay Bacharia at NIH.
[31:55] It's a great way to catch up on everything people have been learning. And as we look forward, and this is where I'd love your help, let's support the searchers. We have to find a root cause to this thing. We don't want this to happen again. Um, I can't tell you that I speak for science like Anthony Fouchy did, but I
[32:15] can tell you I speak for scientific inquiry. There's no one that should be telling you you can't search. That makes no sense whatsoever. You're not a bad person if you search. Um, you have to move through and around the blockers. I don't think you want to attack the blockers. I think Rand Paul's making a
[32:33] mistake making it about prosecution. We should make it about root cause and prevention. Um, this isn't partisan and should have never been. If you're view on what caused COVID is because of who you vote for, please reconsider that.
[32:47] Um, I would ask the newsrooms to dive in, be like Monica Richardson, and then let's put a truly independent commission together. Let's find our cure cower or fineman. I'm going to leave you with a quote. I'm way over time. I'm going to leave you with a quote that's attributed to Plato that sums up what I've been
[33:03] thinking here. We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark. The real tragedy in life is when men are afraid of the light. Thank you.
[33:18] Wow. I got to ask a question. Stay out here. No. No. Stay out here. Can I do a question?
[33:24] Another standing ovation here. Um, Bill, wow. Uh, you put a tremendous amount of effort into this. Uh, we've known each other for 30 years. I've seen you emotional, I think, two other times.
[33:38] One was a Jason Esbell concert. Another time you you you your your top set got counterfeited or something. But this is emotional and this is personal for you. what they did to our kids is really clearly impacted you. Maybe you could talk about why it's so important that we consider the damage that was
[34:02] done to this generation. Well, I mean, for me, it's all back to prevention. Like, like you have to stop it from happening again. I have zero confidence right now that if another pandemic started tomorrow, we'd have any better way to navigate it. I think we might do worse because of the the misinformation
[34:19] campaigns cause a lack of trust. Next time you're not going to listen to them. There's not going to be ability for anybody to lead. And I'm I'm struck, as you can tell by the presentation, by the difference between the the attitude of the people that searched in these other catastrophes, how they were viewed as
[34:36] heroes, and what happened to the people that were looking here. Yes. And it it you repeatedly talk about the power of journalism, Pulitzers and investigative journalism specifically which is different than clickbait journalism. There is something very virtuous about investigative journalism
[34:55] and those type of journals. Maybe you could speak to that and then explain to us why people didn't go after the Pulitzer here, why they didn't put a large amount of resources to because that seems incredibly suspicious. And I I seem to have a recollection of Fouchi getting a pardon, which also seems to be
[35:13] a red flag that you didn't bring up. So take those two issues. Well, yeah. So on the investigative part, I mean, one of the reasons I mentioned all the pulters was just to highlight that fact, right? Um there's a wonderful video on YouTube, if you're interested in this topic at the
[35:27] Brookings Institute, three or four of the of the ladies that I showed led a panel to talk about why the press missed this. And both Katherine and Emily Cop pointed back to the mis the misinformation campaign by the verology experts and how they kind of made it like a faux paw to actually ask
[35:47] questions which but it considering the scale of the outcome is just horrible that that happened and and I would once again I would encourage them like there's still work to do.
[35:55] There's still information coming out. We're getting closer. Like come on in. Yeah. And there's something really tragic here in that if you asked questions this time, you were put into a conspiracy theorist who didn't trust the uh experts and you were the damage.
[36:15] Yeah. For asking questions. This is pure evil. It's crazy. I mean, it's pure evil to take the people who just say, "Hey, is it possible this came out of the Wuhan?
[36:25] guys have if you you in fact funded gain of research. Why is that such a hard question for them to answer? It's Well, I said I I I think a behavioral psychologist would tell you you you you're able to fool yourself to keep your own sanity.
[36:41] Yeah. Now, I'll just end with this. Knowing what you've known, you've put thousands of hours into this. You and I have been talking about this for three or four years now. and and this has been a passion project of yours and I really appreciate you sharing it with the audience. What do you believe
[36:58] based on what you know now is the most likely scenario of how CO originated and and what we can learn from it just based on you being in the I would tell you I intentionally didn't take a side on that here and cuz cuz we haven't found root cause and I would celebrate you know anyone that that's
[37:19] 100% convinced it's animal spillover to do research there I funded US right to know if you want to go search for the animals. I'll fund that, too. You should know China has tested 80,000 animals and not found a single crossover. A and they're they have a huge incentive to find one if they could.
[37:37] Yes. The wet market theory would be absolutely free them from having fingerprints and and right. So, so there's a massive incentive. Why hasn't But but if you want to keep looking, go look. Fouchi in these documents that have been uncovered admitted there were multiple cases prior
[37:55] to the spreader event at the wet market which also is another problem you have to deal with.
[37:59] Yeah. Uh listen, Bill, I think this could wind up being the uh most important work of your life and as your friend I'm I'm just in awe of your passion and your doggedness and any way we can support it. I I think everybody here and in the audience at Allin would love to donate to more research being
[38:16] done. So So we'll tweet that in the future. Let's give it up one more time for Bill Gurley.
[38:21] Thank you, brother. You crush it.