[27:51] and then you're going to convert it through like a a closed braen cycle power conversion unit into electricity and that electricity is then going to power those same thrusters that you would see on Starlinks. It's just they're scaled up, right? They're like 12 kow, then 14 kilow, 25 kow thrusters.
[28:06] What is NASA's budget and if you could have your brothers, what would it be? Uh I'm uh incredibly supportive of look I've said it many times right now like NASA does not have a topline problem like we are bad capital allocators and have been for a long time and a lot of that is based on NASA
[28:22] choices it's based on what other people forced us to do and that's changed we have $25 billion I mean there's got how many how many entrepreneurs are in this room starv 25 billion is a lot of money [laughter] you can build some pretty incredible hardware you're one of the few entrepreneurs that actually has
[28:36] built a profitable company and taken it You showed a picture of the uh blackbird up there. And uh you sure that's a blackbird?
[28:44] Well, okay. Uh what was that picture that you showed up there? Like I said, NASA's getting back in the business flying high and fast again.
[28:52] I mean, that doesn't seem like a space vehicle. It seems like a earth air vehicle.
[28:58] Yeah. So, uh the first A in NASA is our is our aeronautics portfolio. And what we've contributed to over the decades, you may not realize this. Look, when you go see an F-22 fly at an air show and wow you, the flybywire technology was us. The the, you know, thrust vectoring technology was us. Uh NASA's been
[29:17] contributing to breakthroughs in aeronautics, both civil, commercial, and national security applications for a long time. And again, kind of similar to the same theme, over the years, we've been forced to spend our aeronautics budget on like subsidizing high TRL uh efforts from big prime contractors. An
[29:33] engine that's 40 years old, they want to squeak 3% more uh fuel efficiency out of it. Get NASA to pay for it. I'm like, are you kidding? There is no way we are doing that. You can underwrite that investment yourself for competitive reasons. You know what I want to do? I want to get back to the radical airframe
[29:46] and engine designs like we were always supposed to do. And you're getting a little bit of a taste for that on the on Tell us about the importance of having a human on these ships when we go to the moon, when we go to Mars versus if Optimus figure these humanoid robotics are ready. Why would we risk a human
[30:07] life in these incredibly um dangerous environments? Is it ego? Is it we're trying to prove a point to have humans in the loop on these is or should we just be sending robots or it's our it's our destiny, right? I mean the same reason why we we cross the oceans and seas and climb the mountains.
[30:28] This is who we are. Would have many people stopped uh pause from the the discourse of our our daily lives uh to look at those astronauts go around the moon on Artemis 2 if they weren't humans. I I don't think so. Now don't get me wrong, we are going to need robotics and there are some environments
[30:44] that just whether it's the radiation that we can only do uncrrewed um you know robotic missions but we can we can go to the moon as we've done before with our astronauts, we can go to Mars and we can continue on outward and robotics will absolutely play a critical role in that journey.
[31:01] What about um then just like the autonomous navigation systems you talked about fly by wire? I mean, we still see even just like last week the the incident with Amazon Air. Now, this is civil aviation, but the overrun is ridiculous. That that that error mode was pretty shocking to to people, I
[31:18] think. Um, how do we push better and safer technologies and the more obvious solutions, even if that may actually disintermediate uh human involvement?
[31:30] Well, I'll just say that NASA's been playing a role with uh air traffic safety and modernization for a long time. It was NASA that pioneered uh the um autonomous ground collision avoidance software. So I mean it's saved I mean countless lives of fighter pilots pull too many G's, they black out the point
[31:44] the nose of the aircraft's point at the ground, the aircraft recognizes it and and safely recovers it. That was NASA uh work. Um but I will I mean to to your point and we are obviously very involved as you think about a world that's going to have who knows like millions of drones flying around delivering us
[31:59] medicine and other things like we we have to work very closely with the FAA on that. But I will tell you we are thinking about uh you know uh AI and autonomous uh applications within the missions we're designing right now like one mission going to Venus Da Vinci it will not last long uh in that high
[32:14] pressure environment right we are going to only have so much time to gather as much information as we can to update you know kind of the trajectory of the vehicle this is not interesting disregard this is interesting I'm turning in that direction we've already tested this with some of our rovers on
[32:28] Mars and I in my last dying breath this is what I choose to send back uh you know to the scientists on Earth to understand this uh this environment and that's just one step towards a direction that will inevitably include more autonomy in our in our crude and uncrude spacecraft and how do you think about
[32:45] allocation of capital resources Jared to some of the scientific discovery uh the the observational systems uh future platforms for observational for deep space research uh is there a view in your mind it should be a 5% of budget like how do you think about um rationalizing where we go with the spend
[33:04] there. Yeah, I I mean I would say right now science is uh approximately call it a third of of NASA's budget. We recently reorganized but your main mission directorates right now are human space exploration which covers both the great work we're doing in the international space station as well as missions to
[33:20] example moon and building a moon base. You have your research technology mission directorate which is shouldering most of the nuclear NASA effort. Uh and then you have your science mission directorate. And how I think about this is like you have to take advantage of commercial industry right now. Like
[33:32] again there's no one would doubt that launch observation communications are real services where NASA is one customer of many. You've got all these great companies that are printing out satellites again for Earth observation whether it's for national security reasons um you know or otherwise like
[33:45] leverage it for earth sciences give them the instruments if necessary license it to them free up resources to do what industry is not going to want to take on which is building a nuclearpowered octicopter to go to Saturn's moon of Titan so free up as much resource we can to do that and I would always prioritize
[34:02] getting new missions out there to unlock the secrets of the universe there versus the the researchers if we get the data There'll be plenty of brilliant people at institutions around the country that will want to analyze it, but what's the point if you can't uh launch those next missions?
[34:15] And as we wrap up, can we watch the video of the helicopters on Mars and can you just tell us about the timelines to this um becoming reality for Oh, absolutely.
[34:23] Yeah. So, here it is coming in. There it is. Yeah. I mean, how cool is this?
[34:28] I mean, I'm telling you, you can't do this at HUD or IRS. Imagine IRS putting out a video.
[34:35] I only made the Irish joke cuz I know here's the auditor. I mean, it is it is really incredible.
[34:42] So, what's this what's the status of this uh this program? So, we tested one uh Ingenuity uh on our our last rover mission to Mars. It did fantastically well. I mean, can you imagine this is near vacuum by the way on Mars, right? It's like a 10th atmosphere, You know, fractional that are that are
[34:59] flying around. Now, we're going to send three of these with ground penetrating radars, uh which I think is just awesome. But most importantly, how it got there. It got there under nuclear power. A true fisionpowered 100 kilowatt spacecraft that flew by Mars and released it. This will launch in 28. Uh
[35:13] we believe the uh it's it's approximately a year before the uh the helicopters will get there. We're still doing some some trades, but an absolutely extraordinary mission and the start of many more. I mean, again, think about it. There is so much we can learn on the moons within our own solar
[35:26] system. Some really shocking discoveries are just waiting for us in our own backyard.
[35:30] Are you going to test pilot the blackbird? That's not the blackbird. [laughter] We have a lot of talented folks.
[35:36] Hey Jared, you um you mentioned China, all levels of the organization. Exactly. [laughter] All of the or including the head of the organization is quitear quite a pilot. I I know we got a wrap, but you mentioned China and Russia collaborating together.
[35:51] Just wanted to double click on that. What are their capabilities? Russia can't even take Keev. Uh and like they've been out of war for four years.
[35:58] Are they capable of getting to space and doing anything of material? I and I mean this genuinely in a very please come back but then China is copying a lot of what um you don't have to listen to Chimath.
[36:12] Um this is a serious question. China is copying a lot of what Elon's doing in real time.
[36:18] Yes. And what's their actual capability if we assume Russia is up against it and they're broke? And am I correct that Russia's up against it and they're broke? I would just say I mean look obviously have a great appreciation for the history of the the Russian and Soviet space program. I mean like I said
[36:34] in my remarks they came out of the gate hot first you know astronaut in orbit first spacew walk they've done a lot of great things and they contribute to us contribute with us today and collaborate on the international space station but yes they have a conflict and they're prioritizing resources there. The
[36:48] Chinese are an incredible rival in space right now. Yes they don't have the same reusable launch capabilities that SpaceX and others have. what they do put in space, even if they brute force it there with hypergal powered thrusters or hypergall powered rockets akin to like Titan 2 of decades past, what goes in
[37:06] space is good. And I think there were some pretty uh interesting developments that came out of AFA today that our secretary of air force and others in the space force said that enlightened uh I think the general public about how contested that environment is. The bottom line is the Chinese are extremely
[37:20] good in space right now. You couple that with some Russian capabilities on nuclear power, they will return to the moon and they will get to the moon and they will build a base on the south pole.
[37:27] And where would we be if we didn't have SpaceX in relation to China? I mean, SpaceX is our are I mean, they're they're incredible. I mean, they're our most important uh launch partner. We can't send astronauts to and from the space station without them. We can't have down mass of our science
[37:41] experiments from the space station without them. The the the Nancy Grace Roman telescope that's going out to pursue the secrets of the m of the universe was launched on a Falcon Heavy not that long ago. We are fortunate.
[37:50] There's a lot of great companies in commercial space right now, but I mean the United States would be uh seriously challenged in the in the high ground of space without their capabilities. Jared, I'm not a huge fan of government. Uh but I think NASA plays one of the most important roles for humanity that no
[38:07] individual organization outside of government can play. I cannot think of a better person to lead it. I think you're an inspiration to so many. Absolutely.
[38:14] And I I truly honestly respect your service that that you've provided to this country and to the world. We're so lucky to have you. Thank you for being here.
[38:21] Oh, grateful every day. Thank you all. Thank you. [applause] Don't forget your book. Yeah.
[38:29] Thanks. Thanks for coming. Thanks, man. Thank you. Appreciate