00:00 Promises made, promises kept. It's time. [sighs] Here we go. Finally. I know. I know. I'm sorry it's taken a little bit longer.
00:12 Should have done it a day ago. Enough about women's rights. It is >> I agree.
00:26 I'm already on board. True. I'm sick of hearing about it.
00:33 It's >> time to talk about women's wrongs. We are always talking about how adult content has fried the male brain and we have talked about how romance novels have fried the female brain in a similar way. But there is a unique brain frying
00:48 happening over on Tik Tok and it has caused probably the greatest gender divide I have ever seen on any culture war topic ever. It's one of the very >> so far >> very few times I've genuinely been taken
01:03 aback by something on the internet. And if you know me, that should worry you.
01:08 Many Republican women and mostly Democrat women are finally coming together. They're putting their differences aside over what you may ask.
01:16 >> You are never going to kill Lindsy Clancy.
01:19 [cheering] >> Female Tik Tok psychosis. That's about right.
01:23 >> Man dating a woman. Ask her about the Lindsay Clancy trial. And if she says she feels bad for her or even worse, the husband did it. Yeah.
01:33 >> Run. Yes. The women are rising up to defend Lindsay Clancy, a woman who brutally took out her own three children. Lindsay admitted she did it.
01:42 Her lawyers admitted she did it. All evidence lines up and proves she did it.
01:46 The current trial debate was not about if she did it or not. The current trial is about whether she will be thrown in prison for murder or thrown in a looney bin for being crazy. As I am recording
01:56 this right now, the jury has not decided yet. This video is less about the case itself, and more about the discourse surrounding it, the insane theories people are coming up with to defend this woman, the bizarre fanfiction they are
02:08 writing about husband, how they have donated over $1 million for her, and all of the real life protests happening to support her. OJ Simpson for white women.
02:18 Now, not all women are defending Lindsay Clancy, obviously, but nearly all of the people defending her. Like 99.99% of the people defending her are women.
02:29 So, what exactly is going on here? Why are thousands >> women are programmed to do that? That's why it's just that simple.
02:36 >> Of women supporting this woman who has done a terrible, horrible thing. Do these women know something? I don't know. Did the husband actually do it?
02:45 this damning evidence that only these Tik Tok detectives found out.
02:50 >> No. No. These people are crazy. These people are freaks. Let's talk about it.
02:54 Let's watch some crazy Tik Toks and read some delusional comments. Let's talk about why repeal the 19th was trending on Twitter for 3 days. And let's take a comprehensive look into what I'm calling mass female Tik Tok psychosis. That's
03:07 right. Women are remembering that believing [clears throat] another woman >> Uhhuh. is the start to changing the world. Before we dive into this insanity, let's quickly give a shout out to today's sponsor, a tool that can help you navigate through all the insanity of
03:23 women are believing other women have been using for 6 years now.
03:27 >> Ground News. >> Uh-huh. >> Ground News is a website and an app that lets you see how news stories are being covered all across the political spectrum from left, right, and center.
03:36 Every story comes with a quick visual breakdown of the political bias, ownership, and headlines that helps you understand and make sure you're getting both sides.
03:45 >> The reason why they talk with the annoying accents is that they all think that they're starring in a TV show where they're the star and the most important person. And so their entire worldview is centered around being perceived in a
03:58 certain way. So they're dramatic because they feel like they're part of some sort of event that's larger than themselves.
04:06 They make it easy to compare headlines to see how political bias and media ownership can affect the framing of a story. For example, let's take a look at this story about how Democrats are facing pressure to address Hassan
04:18 Piker's controversial comments on Jewish Americans because American politics apparently revolves around a Twitch streamer. Now, on the left, you'll see headlines covering the story like corporate Democrats ripped for attacks on anti-Zionist Hassan And this
04:32 is how a right-wing outlet covered the same exact story. Hassan brags Els is faking moderation to scam voters.
04:40 Same event, completely different focus, completely different vibe. It sounds like they're covering two different stories. The ground news feature I use the most is definitely the blind spot tool. It shows you news that has been covered by one side of the political
04:51 spectrum but ignored by the other. For example, here is a story about how Trump posts truth social ranking of 34 presidents and put himself in first place.
05:01 I've just I do have to say that like as funny as he is, you you have to admit that h not having Trump as president, there's a lot of baggage, man. He's really funny, but it's like, man, he
05:15 really does some dub bro. Like, yeah, >> 25 sources covered this. 63% were leftwing and only 25% were right-wing.
05:25 Probably because it's a little embarrassing. Here is a story about how Homeland Security is warning of Chinese parts in election machines and will require paper ballot audits. 16 sources covered this, all of them right-wing.
05:39 I've been using Ground News for years now, and it is my go-to app to read the news. But don't just take my word for it. Even the Nobel Peace Center recognized ground news as an excellent way to stay informed, avoid echo
05:51 chambers, and expand your world view. Hi, that's our president.
05:54 I am currently offering 40% off their Vantage plan, which is the plan I use to access China's promotion to cover it.
06:01 >> To get the 40% off discount or use the QR code on screen right here or click the link in the video description down below to subscribe to their Vantage plan today. Huge thank you to Ground News for sponsoring this
06:14 video. Now, let's get back into it. I know you were all waiting for this video. I'm [clears throat] sorry. I wanted to take my sweet time with it. I know a lot of you have seen me crashing the out on Twitter about this.
06:26 Well, I got my emotions out of the way.
06:28 Mostly logic is seeping in. I am more angry than ever before. Uh, so I am ready. If you are not familiar with this trial or what is going on, here is a quick rundown. In January 2023, Lindsay Clancy, a former labor and delivery
06:41 nurse and mother of three, crazy that you'd be like, 5-year-old Cora, three-year-old Dawson, and 8-month-old Ken. On the evening of January 24th, Lindsay Clancy purposely sent her husband, Patrick Clancy, out on a long errand. She told him to pick up
06:56 medication at CVS and pick up food from a restaurant far away. And while he was gone, she took each of her children, one by one, down to the basement and strangled them to death with exercise ropes. Wow.
07:08 >> She then tried to take the coward's way out by jumping out a two-story window.
07:12 >> What a dumb >> She's now paralyzed in a wheelchair. The defense argues that Lindsay was suffering from postpartum psychosis. We will get into that. And that she wasn't receiving the help she needed. We'll get into that, too. Trust me, we will get
07:25 into all that. But as it stands right now and as it stood for years, it is universally accepted that Lindsay Clancy killed her children. The trial was about if Lindsay was going to prison or the Looney Bin. Nobody in the court is
07:38 >> The problem is that the Looney Bin can let you out. That's the big issue. Like I'd be okay with her going to the looney bin if it meant a life sentence. Like you're you're stuck inside of the crazy
07:49 box and you're never coming out of the box. The problem is that you can come out of the box.
07:56 >> Arguing that Lindsay Clancy is innocent. Not even her own lawyer. Nobody. Well, nobody except thousands and thousands of women on TikTok.
08:06 >> Lindsay Clancy didn't do it. Patrick Clancy.
08:09 >> Look at her lips. Oh my god.
08:16 Holy Look at that. That's crazy. You see that?
08:23 What the is going on here? >> Do it.
08:27 >> Patrick Clancy did that. He drugged Lindsay.
08:29 >> He did it. Just he did it. Like read everything. Look at everything. Don't hate women.
08:35 >> Believe all women. And I have to say also that and this is important and I can say this right. We have LTG to do the other side but I have to do this one. It's mostly white women that are
08:47 doing this. It is it's mostly white women that are doing this. And do you know why? One of the big reasons why is because a lot of white guys put up with this.
09:00 Fat white women. Yep. That's right. It's because guys are putting up with it.
09:06 my kids. No, you didn't. For some reason, every woman and her mother has convinced herself that actually Lindsay's husband, Patrick, is the real perpetrator of this crime. Despite there being absolutely no proof of this, nobody thinks whatsoever. Lindsay Clancy
09:21 is innocent. The husband did it. I said what I said. New theory. He killed the kids. His was the voice she heard. He threw her out the window. She's about to be jailed for life for something her husband did. He was having an affair. He
09:33 plotted. I think she like god damn, bro.
09:36 Like, is lizard an ethnicity? Can Can you ethnically be a lizard?
09:45 Well, yeah, I guess so, cuz there's Mark Zuckerberg.
09:48 >> He drugged her. I think the voices she was hearing was him. Her surviving wasn't part of his plan. I think he was already having an affair. He killed his kids and attempted to kill her, then blamed her for what he actually did. I
10:00 think he did it while she was in severe psychosis and convinced her she did it.
10:04 I have the strangest feeling that he was having an affair with one of her doctors. I just can't prove it.
10:09 >> I just can't prove it. We know. We know, sweetie. Look at her sitting in the passenger seat with the kid in the car.
10:16 Oh my god, that poor little kid. >> It never happened. It never happened. We made this one up.
10:21 >> Yeah, >> it's fiction. >> Yeah. Yeah. None of that they said is true. None of it. Not a single thing they said is based in reality. My theory is, and I could be wrong, is that yes, you are wrong. I am not reading the
10:34 rest. This all happened years ago. They investigated the husband and found nothing. But you see, the dozens of professionals working on this case, the detectives, the FBI, the cops, the lawyers are nothing compared to the mind of the tick tock female. They can see
10:48 through it all. Evidence be damned. The husband did it, and they can prove it with intuition and vibes and star racism. If women's intuition was as good as they think it is, then they wouldn't keep ending up with these guys
11:02 that they have to get restraining orders from and freaking out about. Everybody knows these guys are awful women. The entire idea that women's intuition is this kind of like six sense. Uh it it's not. Okay, let's just say that it's not.
11:21 >> And what is your date of birth?
11:23 >> June 15th, 1988. >> Oh, he's 2 years older than me. He did it.
11:26 >> You know, just [clears throat] following all their birth chart.
11:28 >> Oh, June. He was born in Oh, he's a Gemini >> charts and birthdays and zodiac signs.
11:35 >> Another white woman. >> I've already gone over the forensic astrology charts that show that the perpetrator is a male.
11:41 >> I'm telling you all right now, when the South Node goes into Cancer, >> overwhelmingly, South Node goes into Cancer. Cancer. In March of 2028, the south node is going to transit over Patrick Clancy's moon in cancer.
11:55 >> Gemini stellium with cancer stellium gives massive manipulator energy. If there's a Gemini male involved, there's a 99% chance he's guilty. If he's Gemini and she's a Leo, it was toxic between them. He did it. That's all I needed to
12:08 know. Leos don't kill their cubs. Leos don't kill. Geminis do. Your honor, he was a Gemini. Death. This is This is why we had the witch trials.
12:23 This is why we did it. Isn't it crazy that it took us 400 years?
12:33 But wow. Right. Wow. Wow. I learned that the lawyer in this Clancy trial is an Aquarius. This is the most Saturn thing I have seen.
12:51 >> This is the All right, I have to use the bathroom. Give me a minute. I I I just I have to make sure I'm completely focused on this nose ring. Well, that's what they usually do to hogs and cows. I'm
13:00 back. I'm sorry, gentlemen. Septum piercing witch. Yeah, that's kind of what they are. I think that's accurate. Sure.
13:14 Oh man. >> In a long time. >> The most Saturn thing you have seen in a long What? What does that mean? By the way, that nose ring looks like Sorry.
13:24 Sorry. Was that Uranus of me to say?
13:26 >> I think the voices Lindsay Clancy was hearing in her head were her husband's thoughts. Women when they are postpartum.
13:33 >> They all have nose rings, too. You see that?
13:37 Like livestock. are more psychically intuitive and telepathic.
13:43 >> Women have intuition. So many of us are standing behind Lindsay because we know she didn't do it. As women, we know what he did. We see it. Women know. We all know. It's Patrick Clancy versus the Women of America at this lol. Like,
13:57 >> and and by the way, look at look at this. This is what's so crazy. 79,000 likes.
14:05 >> Oh my god. >> Lol. Like, why hasn't he been arrested yet? Oh my god. Because the law isn't based on emotions and Tik Tok girlies gut feelings, but rather uses evidence, testimonies, digital footprints, and most important confessions to deter out
14:18 of here. >> Says the man. Women >> says the man.
14:24 Yeah. They're like kids. >> Intuition. Men do not. Women need to lead the FBI. No, because women's intuition is powerful. Women have all this magical intuition until it comes to finding a good man and then all their
14:39 exes are abusive narcissists. >> Exactly. exactly. Women's intuition is garbage. Okay. Total garbage.
14:48 >> Weird how that works out. How do we know Patrick Clancy did it?
14:52 >> It's exactly what I said. >> Just look at him. He just looks like >> it's not pre-washed. It's just the way it is.
14:57 >> Case closed. This is the biggest reason I don't just how it is.
15:00 >> Without knowing anything about it, but seeing what the man looks like, he did it. My three-year-old daughter >> say >> took one look at him and said, "That's a bad guy." His facial expressions are giving away. He's never shown any grief
15:11 over losing his three children. Lindsay, on the other hand, is going through hell. Not a single tear stone face the whole time. Something is off. Something seems off about him. Yeah, his wife murdered his children. That's what's off, you freaks. The 911 call was so
15:26 horrific, so traumatizing that they didn't want it released to the public.
15:30 >> That's exactly why they should have released it.
15:34 I hate how everything now has been sterilized.
15:38 Like people won't say kill, they won't say murder, they won't say rape, they won't say pedophile.
15:45 They won't say the words that describe the actions and describe the intent.
15:52 Trigger pullers instead of shooters. Everything has been like re it's basically been redefined to be less upsetting.
16:04 It's such a huge problem. >> Quickly ask you about the Patrick Clancy 911 call because when Patrick Clancy arrived at the house, found his wife outside, had jumped from the window, and then found the kids inside, there was
16:20 this awful 911 call that has not been played publicly. But you have heard the call. It was one of the worst pro the worst thing I've ever heard. It was the screams coming out of Patrick were just
16:36 unearly and guttural and >> unlike anything I've ever heard >> because you hear him screaming and you hear him say Dawson and my buddy and then he goes to the other side of the basement where there's a den and you
16:49 hear him find Kora and he screams baby.
16:52 Then you can hear when he finds talent.
16:54 Um because the the pain in his voice gets him.
16:58 >> But yeah, he's not crying in court like they do in the movies. So he's guilty because everyone knows crying in court means you're innocent, right? And you know damn well that if he was crying, they would all just say he's
17:08 >> they would just say he's manipulating or faking it. Yeah. It doesn't matter. Like again, you never Exactly. You never accept any of their framing >> it, which they have. There was one point in the trial where Patrick's voice was
17:20 shaky and he was getting upset and they all were just like, "Well, narcissists are really good actors, so if he doesn't cry, he's a cold psychopathic Gemini.
17:30 And if he does cry, he's a narcissistic actor." Also, I'm sorry, but if we're going to judge people based on the way they look, what the is this?
17:44 I know, you know, everybody knows. We all know she looks like a villain out of a children's fairy tale. is a goblin. is a ghoul. is a
18:00 Japanese water ghost. There are thousands of woman triggered. The reason because those are the eyes of a covert narcissist. And we've all looked into those eyes before. I've seen that same look in my father's eyes. This photo of
18:12 him gives [laughter] >> right unresolved personal trauma with daddy. Oh, good.
18:19 >> Me the chills. You can actually feel the rage he's trying to hide. Us women.
18:23 >> Yeah, I bet he's probably mad because of the kids that got killed.
18:27 >> Dare down a man with those same kind of eyes knowing he wanted to hurt us. Some of the comments I'm getting are insane because not just me, but women all over the world who have lived with a
18:36 sociopathic psycho clock Patrick immediately. These women are all projecting their daddy issues and like past relationship trauma onto this randoming guy. This guy who just went through like unimaginable horror and they're just like, he reminds me of my
18:50 dad. >> I don't believe Patrick did anything for Lindsay. I think Lindsay did it all herself. I don't think he was a good father. I don't think he was a good husband. I think. I think. Who the are you? Who cares what you think? Did
19:02 you know this man personally? No, you didn't. How about instead of trauma dumping on the internet, you go to therapy.
19:08 >> All right. He did it. Patrick did it.
19:09 Patrick's the one. >> I remember seeing this one.
19:11 >> Did it. I was actually in therapy today and my therapist and I were talking about it and she looks at me and she goes, "He did it.
19:16 >> Oh god, never mind. Maybe therapy is not a good idea."
19:20 >> Therapy is a horrible idea. I think therapy is a joke.
19:24 So, if you're a girl and you're unhappy, you need to just go to church. If you're a guy and you're unhappy, you need to start a project that requires physical effort and activity.
19:38 And if that doesn't work, just you you go to the mental asylum.
19:43 There's just something wrong with you. That's it.
19:49 assen chat GPT ass therapists just enabling and feeding the delusion of these narcissistic idiots. You know what a real therapist would say? You know what a real good therapist would say?
19:59 Log off. Also, I miss when everyone's lips didn't look like prolapsed Like, get that out of here. I'm sick of it.
20:07 >> Therapist. Yeah. It's like it's crazy how like I mean women that get like lip filler and other like I get like I mean if women want to get plastic surgery I mean I think you should be able to do
20:17 what you want but you are going to look usually like an idiot. There's a lot of women that get plastic surgery and they look better but the ones that don't you can easily tell >> want to see it. There is no proof that
20:31 Patrick Clancy was a abusive husband or a bad father. In fact, there's only proof of the opposite. Things we do know from this case was that Patrick was a very helpful father. He did paternity leave. He worked from home. He took the
20:44 kids whenever she wanted him to. Paid the bills. He let her stay home. They had a nanny. But no, he's actually a terrible father. And he's guilty because of mystical rectangle. So, >> this is rock bottom for her.
20:58 >> Oh, that's what she did to the kids.
21:02 She's hit her worst, but there's going to be more that comes out regarding him.
21:07 Did Patrick unal alive the children? >> It's all white women. It is. It's all white women. And I'm sure there's going to be a couple of exceptions, but man, you guys got to see the trend.
21:23 And it it's our fault. It's our fault because we don't ever tell them no.
21:32 This is why we need robots so men don't feel like they have to capitulate to this stupidity.
21:44 >> Dumb ass. [laughter] >> Ah, yes. The A of apples. Mhm.
22:00 >> You are gay. >> I have decided I'm going to send Lindsay Clancy a letter of encouragement.
22:05 >> I was at the salon this morning getting my hair done and every woman in the place believes she's innocent and PC is responsible.
22:12 >> Patrick Clancy, >> grandmas, young gals, all of them. I hope Lindsay knows we are pulling for her. All women stand with Lindsay. Even if she did it, she didn't do it. Even if he didn't do it, he did it. What
22:25 >> what what they mean is that it's never a woman's fault and it's always a man's fault. That's it. Why are so many people calling this out saying women are crazy?
22:34 But every time a black American's on trial, it's the system. One is gendered, the other one's race. They're equal the same. It's dumb all around. It's tribalism. Well, it's just it's a different excuse, right? That's it. It's just a different excuse. It's crazy how
22:47 many teeth people are supposed to have, isn't it? It's always a shock for me to see that. Like, wow. Really?
22:56 >> She was their mother before she became a headline. Oh, wow. Why did she become a headline?
23:00 >> Because she killed them. >> Tell the class. Those children had a childhood because of their mother.
23:05 >> And now the >> have no adulthood because of their mother.
23:10 >> Yeah. >> Your point. It sounds absolutely crazy, but I've got this overwhelming feeling that she's part of the awakening of the divine feminine. We are all >> I agree. I think that this is the awakening. This is this is a the tr so
23:23 this is step like point0 um in the multi-step plan of never you know what >> rallying around her except for those of us who are still under the patriarchy. I will add to this and tell you that I too
23:38 have been getting >> patriarchy is going to come back and everybody's gonna be like oh my god why did it take so long?
23:44 >> Sensational downloads. I honestly feel as though this woman is not only going to have an awakening, but she's going to be found innocent. The patriarchy thought we would think of her as a monster, but so many women are seeing
23:56 themselves in her. The divine feminine frequency coming through. Lindsay Clancy is being protected. Doing a justice spell for Lindsay Clancy, cuz I know the truth will come.
24:05 >> Doing a justice spell. And it's a stupid middle-aged woman trying to set a wine glass on fire on her stove.
24:16 Yeah, that's about right. Got it. >> Out and the real villain will be revealed. Patrick Clancy has pissed off the witches.
24:26 >> Everyone, >> we know >> of us that have roots that go back to the Salem witch trials. We are freeing our ancestral bloodline by coming together for Lindsay Clancy.
24:38 >> Yeah. By proving them right. >> Salem witch trials really that bad?
24:45 Y'all are pissing me off. You're pissing me off about this Lindsay Clancy case. We're the ones that are trying to figure out who actually did this to these poor ass innocent children.
24:58 >> What do you mean you're the ones trying to figure out who DID IT? THEY KNOW >> she's just a fat woman that probably doesn't have a job. Spends all day at home and so she's got to have something
25:06 to do to make herself feel good. >> Who did it? You are not the people actually working on the They know that, right? They know they're not actually working on the case, right?
25:16 >> We literally binge watch true crime as a hobby. We've been trained for this moment. Clocking in for my shift as an at home juror on the Lindsay Clancy trial. Day 14. This >> day 14. That's right. See, it's just
25:29 they don't even do anything. >> Me feeling like I'm on Law and Order with all you guys. Coffee. For those of us working hard on this case, we deserve coffee and bonus pay. God, >> you're working on the case.
25:40 >> I really think they're working on this case. You were not detectives. You are bored housewives who replace daytime.
25:45 >> Why is it that the collective the the collective paos or I don't know the collective conscience of all these women is like a like a 9-year-old.
25:58 Have you guys ever noticed this that like the their collective conscience is equivalent to like what a nine-year-old would think or do or say?
26:08 Isn't that weird? Like what are the odds of that?
26:12 operas with Tik Tok. Again, I can't stress this enough. The trial is not about who did it. They really do believe that this is like a movie and there's going to be some kind of plot twist that the defense will have like his L. Woods
26:23 moment. Thousands and thousands of women blindly repeating the same talking points. He cheated on her. No, no evidence. His DNA was on the exercise bands. Well, yeah, because he tried to untie them. He was literally at CVS when
26:36 this all He's on camera at CVS. They literally have phone. They have all the evidence.
26:41 >> Women online believe that he did it. He ran a 4-minute mile to go home. Do it to his own kids and stage it as if his wife did it and fake a phone call while he was with her while simultaneously
26:53 throwing her out of the building. And then he ran a 4-minute mile back and then he got stuff from the store and then he went to go pick up food and then he came back and then he faked another.
27:02 >> Yes. Yes. That is what they actually believe.
27:05 >> Lindsay Clancy trial. Have you guys been following it?
27:07 >> My girlfriend has. I know nothing about it, but she's on TikTok.
27:10 >> Oh, that poor guy. >> For like 3 hours in the morning, she thinks she's innocent.
27:15 >> If a woman kills her own kids, no matter what the reason is, she should go to jail.
27:18 >> Yeah, that's for sure. >> That's for sure.
27:19 >> I feel like the husband could have been more of a man.
27:22 >> Where do you get your news from? Just curious.
27:23 >> Tik Tok. >> He should go to jail for negligence. He was He needs to take care of his kids.
27:29 >> Is this any of your girlfriends? >> This is your girlfriend? Where are you getting your news that the defense might not be getting theirs?
27:35 >> Tik Tok. I just have seen a little bit on Tik Tok.
27:38 >> I'm watching it on Tik Tok. >> Tik Tockers are posting reenactment videos of them hanging out the window to prove that Lindsay Clancy is innocent.
27:45 >> You know, I'm starting to believe it's no coincidence that every civilization all over the world, even when they didn't have any contact with each other, all came to the same conclusion about women. Also, why didn't Trump go through
27:55 with the banning Tik Tok thing? We would be in a much better place right now.
27:59 Whatever. >> I totally disagree. The problem is women.
28:06 Tik Tok isn't the problem. >> Happened with that. China doesn't even let people consume slop like this. Maybe they have the right idea. Maybe we got to get a little Chinese Patrick Clancy spotted with new wife amid ex-wife
28:18 Lindsay's murder trial. Imagine being this guy. Imagine going through what he has been through and now you have to deal with retards on Tik Tok and TMZ stalking you as if you were some kind of pop star. Patrick was seen taking phone
28:34 calls and pacing in circles while using his phone. At one point, he reportedly sat with his feet on a table and wiggled his toes. What?
28:42 >> Thank you, TMZ. That's just what we needed to hear.
28:47 >> Okay. Also, this happened three years ago, but I guess he's just never allowed to move on and live a normal life. He probably misses being a dad. He probably misses having children. He probably misses having a normal, stable life. I
28:59 don't know how this would functioning. I would have gone full Shutter Island, personally. And it's not like he just moved on and forgot about them. He built a park in their honor. He raised over $75,000 for Boston's Children Hospital.
29:12 Also, Patrick and his sisters helped create the Herd Foundation, which is an organization that focuses on parental mental health. That is way more than these idiots supporting Lindsay ever did. They could have donated to charities or some but no, they
29:26 created a GoFundMe for Lindsay's family. I donated 800 and I'm a single mom who lives off ramen. I donated $5,000. If we don't be her voice and get loud and fight for her justice until Patrick is in prison for the rest of his life, then
29:39 we will have failed as a nation. And if this can happen to her, it can happen to any of us.
29:44 >> That's exactly the way that they look at it. They think that they they want to protect Lindsay Clansancy as a method of kind of proxy for themselves. This is generally the way that things go is that it's not really about her as much as
29:59 it's like if they can do this to her, then maybe this could happen to me.
30:04 >> Filming this, they have raised over $1 million for Lindsay. And I'm not exaggerating when I tell you that every single donation is from a woman. I'm not joking. You can go check yourself. You will be scrolling for a long ass time. I
30:15 scrolled for like 10 minutes and didn't see one male name. Finally, women are the protectors and providers protecting a murderer and providing her with $1 million. But that's not all. It gets worse. These women planned and organized real life rallies outside of the
30:32 courthouse for >> Look at that. It's beautiful.
30:34 [screaming] >> [cheering and applause] >> Wow. >> I wonder what she thinks of this.
30:44 >> I mean, you've got to be out of your mind atmosphere ever again.
30:47 Thank you. >> We love you, [clears throat] Lindsay, and we're here for you. We're here to show support and love for her.
30:52 >> Very nice of them to do the strangle hands pose in there.
30:56 >> They were waving at her, passing in the car like she was the president of the United States.
31:00 >> Yep. [cheering and applause] They were like, >> "It's all fat white women." I know.
31:07 >> Up in Giddily taking photos with Lindsay's lawyer like he was some kind of celebrity taking selfies in front of the triple homicide court case.
31:16 >> Again, it's it's all it's all just the ethos of a 9-year-old girl.
31:23 That's all it is. This is the collective conscience of women on the internet is a 9-year-old girl.
31:31 What the A lot of these women probably see this as nothing more than like some bizarre form of super late term post birth abortion. No matter what you think of abortion, you got to admit going from like safe legal rare to like
31:45 shout your abortion, just celebrating it and completely normalizing it as if it's like another form of birth control probably had some bad side effects on society. I don't know. I'm just throwing out theories because like I have no
31:56 theory of mine for this. This is just insane to me. I want to be charitable and believe a lot of these women, especially these mothers, just can't fathom ever doing any of this to their own children. So, they have to like cope
32:10 and make up theories. She would never do that. She loved those kids. A mother would never do that. It must have been the husband. Women, >> I think that to that extent, it's probably true. But the problem to me is
32:21 that when you do something bad, it doesn't really matter why you do it. It just matters that it's happening. Like I'm not really interested in like hearing about like somebody's psychology or about like why they feel this way. I
32:37 don't really give a honestly. I only care about what you're doing. Like, oh, you're doing this bad thing. Okay, then you have to stop doing it. Like that's literally it.
32:48 >> Deserve support and Lindsay didn't >> receive the support that she deserved. A lot of these women are projecting their postpartum issues, their struggle with motherhood onto Lindsay Clancy, which is stupid. I'm not going to sugarcoat it
33:03 and be like, well, you know, they're just stressed out and they they want to martyr and whatever. No, it's stupid.
33:09 She's a murderer and she pre-planned all of this. She just she needs to fry.
33:13 Like, [laughter] I don't know what to say. This idea that Lindsay Clancy was left hanging with no support and no help is absolutely not true. Lindsay had more help than most women.
33:24 >> 99% of women. Her husband took paternity leave so he can be home and more. He took the kids when she needed a break.
33:30 Her parents were there to take the kids when she needed a break. She had nannies. She had nannies. She had a ton of doctors trying to help her. She checked her facility and voluntarily checked herself out. Days later, Dr.
33:42 Gregory Satuff >> testified that women and infants hospital offered Lindsay Clancy help and she denied it. help was offered to her and she denied it. Like, what more could have been done besides involuntarily sending her to a looney bin, which I
33:58 support. >> I wish that was possible to do. But these >> That's what we have to do.
34:05 And until we do this, we're going to keep having these problems.
34:10 You can't let some chickens out of the coupe, bro. [laughter] You can't let them out, bro. Like, they're crazy.
34:20 You got to keep them in the chicken coop the moment that they get out. Like we used to we had this bird and this bird it name was birdie and whenever you let birdie out of the cage [laughter] birdie
34:34 flies straight into a wall. It's it was a cockatil. And my mom would say, "OH, DON'T LET OH, WE GOING TO LET HIM OUT." OH, THERE HE GOES. BOOM. IT'S THE WALL. [laughter] All right. Pick up birdie. put bird in
34:49 there. This is what would happen. And you just don't you can't let him out of the cage.
34:56 >> Women would not support that either. They would say it was like denying her freedom and agency and whatever. So like what the do they want? Like are you telling me right now that a bunch of feminists are arguing that women's
35:06 hormones make them so crazy that they should not have agency and they should be locked up against their will? Okay.
35:11 >> I Yeah, I agree. >> Two steps forward 150 years back. I support mental illness in general is not even an excuse. Many people who murder are mentally ill. Probably most of them are mentally ill. Like oh the woman who
35:25 murdered her three children was mentally ill. >> This changes everything. I thought she was an upstanding normal citizen. Like no.
35:34 >> We've learned a lot more about Lindsay Clancy's [music] husband as this trial has played out and women are clocking every tidbit. We've learned a lot more about Lindsay Clancy's husband. No, you haven't. You watched some Tik Toks by
35:46 Pitbullmama 78 who told you about Lindsay Clancy's husband with her tarot cards and intuition and stupid Shut the up. What the hell is going on with women? They've developed pattern recognition and can clock a problematic man from a mile away. Cope.
36:02 >> No, you can't. [laughter] No, you can't.
36:04 You know you can't. It's actually crazy like how bad women are at picking partners. It is like I I've known so many. It's like you just keep you keep even ending up with losers every single time
36:19 >> more. This woman used to be some like right-wing libertarian podcaster by the way. What the is going on? What is really interesting about this and what sets it apart from other things I've covered is this is not political at all.
36:30 Like these aren't activists. This isn't >> I'd argue that it is political. I think that, you know, the recent polling where there was a 40point difference between Republicans and Democrats that identified as such that thought that she
36:45 was uh guilty. I think that it's overwhelmingly again mentally ill young women. And what are mentally ill young women? Most likely Democrats. They're most likely Democrats. This is just the
36:59 way it is. So, and and you might not like that, but it's just true.
37:05 like, you know, BLM or Luigi Manjone where it was a political thing. This is completely a-political to a lot of the women. Literally, the woman who started the first rally for Lindsay Clancy is like a TPUSA, Charlie Kirk, Matt Walsh
37:18 fan. It's not just liberal women. It's overwhelmingly liberal women, but it's not just liberal women, which is so what makes it a unique and creepy phenomenon.
37:28 There's also like no leftist men or liberal men sticking their neck out for these women. There's no like performative male allies coming out like I support you ladies.
37:36 >> Well, that's changed since this video released.
37:38 >> I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There's one. Dear fellow men, you are making us all look like emotionally stunted meattheads over this Lindsy Clancy thing. First of all, fellow men, >> yeah.
37:48 >> Are you a crab in a human skin suit?
37:51 Second of all, why should men give a how they are perceived by insane women supporting a baby murder? Oh, no. The worst people on earth might think I'm a meatthead.
38:00 >> What? Okay, >> I made my thought.
38:02 >> This is what I was saying before about how like thinking like a like a Floyd, it's not unique to being a woman. There are men that think like this too.
38:16 >> Clear on this. The moment that she um was arrested, the moment that it made the news, Lindsay Clancy is obviously not guilty. There are a fleet of doctors who should be imprisoned for what they put her on. Not guilty is a very
38:30 interesting way to describe a woman who literally admits to doing it, but okay.
38:34 Pop off, Candace. Tell us how Patrick Clancy is also secretly a woman or whatever the Next. Editing Shu here. I just got to add the she's saying about the fleet of doctors isn't really true. It wasn't really the doctor's
38:46 fault. She kind of just doctor shopped around for different pills. She never told doctors she was seeing other doctors. She didn't tell them she was on other medications. and she kept just collecting them, not taking them, taking them whenever she wanted. The system
38:59 didn't fail her. And like one in five, >> I think that's the dumbest Candace quote of all time. I don't think it is.
39:06 I don't think it is. Like I know why you'd think that, but I don't think that it is. I think that there's been a lot of other clips from Candace Owens that are even dumber than that.
39:17 >> Them, taking them whenever she wanted. The system didn't fail her. And like one in five women are taking SSRIs. How many have done that?
39:24 >> One in five non-Hispanic white women are taking SSRIs.
39:30 >> Trust me, nobody hates big pharma more than I do, but trying to make this a big pharma thing isn't going to work here.
39:36 Not everything is big pharma, big Israel, big state. And when I'm telling you that, that's how you know it's bad.
39:41 Tommy Lauren of course came out with a soft defense for this woman. I know a lot of Republicans don't want to hear this, but the right is on the verge of making the same mistake with young women that the left did with young men. I know
39:52 some of these women are fun to mock and I get it and I do it too. But we have to do better if we want to bring them over to our side. If we totally alienate young women, we will not win elections.
40:03 [music] We have to find a way to appeal to them. If you guys remember the last time I talked >> Tommy Lauren is a and ultimately she's going to advocate for women. She was the same person that was she got
40:16 roasted for that. She is the only thing that you if you want to appeal to women, win. Just win. just be popular and win and then have influence and power.
40:25 That's the only way you you can appeal to women. Uh it doesn't m nothing else matters. You can literally call them You can call them You can want to take their rights away and they'll still support you if they think
40:38 that you're the person that's in control. It's just the way they are.
40:42 >> About Tommy Lauren. It was responding to her take about how men are all losers who live in their mommy's basement.
40:48 That's why they're lonely and can't get married. So, when it comes to men, they're just losers in their mommy's basements. But when it comes to women, they're all perfect angels. Don't scare them away. Like, what should the right
40:58 be doing to win over Lindsay Clansy's supporters? Like, what? Like, why would you even block them anyway? I don't understand. My mother thinks Lindsay is guilty. She's MAGA. Of course, I'm MAGA and think Lindsay is innocent. Not all
41:11 of us are against Lindsay, you know. If Lindsay was MAGA, you wouldn't support her. The MAGA women behind Lindsay have more of a backbone than liberals do because we would support Lindsay even if she was a liberal. You can't say the
41:21 same. >> We're even like it's like I I don't know which side in that circumstance is more I don't even know. I I I can't parse that out.
41:34 >> Ago women do not support. They do not support Lindsay in any real meaningful way.
41:39 >> Oh my god, dude. They're having a crazy competition in the comments. I support the baby murder more. No, I support the baby murder more. Ladies, ladies, calm down. You are both losing your voting rights.
41:49 >> Men in the Lindsy Clancy comments, come here. Come here. Shut the up.
41:53 Thousand trials going on every day where men have done far worse.
41:57 >> These men in my comments do not say a godamn word every other day when a man annihilates his own.
42:06 >> Isn't it crazy how you already know what their opinion is just by looking at them?
42:10 >> Family. Men annihilate their families all the time, yet you're not blaming old men. What about men like Chris Watts?
42:16 Men do commit most of the murder. Men do commit >> men overwhelmingly do. Men are way more violent than women are. Men are killers.
42:24 They're the ones that have started every war, and they're probably the ones that will start every war. They kill kids.
42:30 They kill women. They kill each other. They kill animals. They kill dogs. They kill civilizations. They blow up buildings. They blow up cars. They do everything.
42:42 It's not our fault, though. It's just testosterone that makes us do this. So, like, I don't know why you're trying to hold us accountable. It's not like we're doing this on purpose. It's just the way that we're programmed.
42:53 >> Yeah. It's not our fault >> of the family annihilation. But the difference is, now stay with me here, these men are not supported by thousands of other men. They're not rallied around and they're not given a million dollars.
43:05 These men are universally hated, as they should be. as Lindsay Clancy should have been. People aren't looking at Lindsay and going, "Wow, all women are murderers. They're looking at all the women supporting the murderer." And it's funny they bring up Chris Watts, a guy
43:21 who was in prison for murdering his wife and children when it wasn't men who supported Chris Watts. It was women. A ton of women sent love letters.
43:29 >> He's locked up for rice. So why do women send him love letters?
43:32 >> There's two Chris Watts. This is more of female intuition at work and his wife and children. This is how I know Patrick Clancy is innocent because if he wasn't, all these women would be thirsting after him like they do every other murder.
43:42 Now, this case has tested many relationships. >> If Patrick Clansancy looked like Henry Cavl, people would want Lindsey Clancy to get the electric chair. If Lindsey Clancy looked like Sydney Sweeney, all the women would also want Lindsey
43:58 Clansancy to get the electric chair. It's actually that simple.
44:07 I know. I know. I know. You might think to yourself, "There's no way."
44:12 Yep. It's that simple. >> At first, my husband didn't understand why I was so invested in this trial.
44:21 Then he tried to start making me see things from a different perspective, and now he's sleeping upstairs. My boyfriend is on Reddit and they're calling people on TikTok crazy for saying it was
44:36 Patrick and he doesn't believe me and I'm like, "Do you want to break up right now, bro? Broke up with my boyfriend last night over this case. I can't stop crying, but I know I did the right thing." His loss, you deserve better.
44:46 Never settle for less than he did it, ladies. Literally got in a fight with my boyfriend of 6 years over this. He's convinced she did it, and he kept trying to pester me into explaining why I think she did it. And all I could answer is,
44:57 "You're not a woman. You don't To the extent that you engage in a political conversation with a female, you've already lost the correct frame of
45:12 reference. You've you've lost by default. like you're having a conversation with them about [snorts] uh like a legal matter or a uh a court case or like immigration or something.
45:31 This is you you do not even do not even engage in this because you don't want to encourage this type of thinking.
45:41 It's problematic. It's confusing. It's complex. It's upsetting those guys. No, no. The thing is that you know what she said? I was expl I took her out to dinner, of course, and
45:59 I was explaining to her why people in America were crazy and I was talking about Charlie Kirk and she goes, "Who's Charlie Kirk?" She didn't even know.
46:12 She had no idea that is not when was this? It's like a I don't know. It was like a month ago or something.
46:22 >> Get it. No, because that is so valid. We are tuned into these kind of things in a way men are not. The way they just enable the worst in each other never will cease to amaze me. Oh my god,
46:31 you're so valid. Queen, >> break up with your man for not supporting a murderer. Yeah. Also, boyfriend of six years.
46:40 Yeah, >> I'm considering calling off my >> Yeah, true. Like, if you have a boyfriend for more than 2 years and you're dating for more than two years and you're a woman, you need to break up with him because he's just stringing you
46:51 along until we can find a better woman to get in a relationship with and get married to. I am a traditional marriage enjoyer. I think that's exactly what you should do. And women only have a finite period of time in which they're
47:04 appealing to men. It's really not very long. And men on the other hand have a much longer window in which they can be appealing to to women. So what men do in a lot of cases is they string women
47:17 along for multiple years being in a relationship with them, never actually committing to them. And then you know whenever this woman is like 29 years old or she's 31 years old and she's a hag now, basically now they break up and
47:32 she's going to start back at square one.
47:36 That's it. It It's a It No, no, really. Like, it's a huge problem that women have and nobody ever talks about this, but it's like men waste women's most prime years in situationships and then these women
47:54 get older and they're not as appealing to men and they hate all men. And it's like, honestly, guys, I don't think you should be doing that. I think I don't think you need to be around in four different situationship. No good.
48:07 They deserve it. I don't think so. Why do you believe in marriage? Because it's the best thing for the kids. I don't give a about like the man and the woman and whether they're in love or not. Who gives a about that? That's
48:19 It's gay. But like what really matters is about the civility of the family for the child. And if you build a culture and you build a society that doesn't put children first, that is a society that dies. That's the reason why
48:35 I believe in it. It has nothing to do with men or women or custody or anything else. What matters is the kid. And if you're not putting kids first, you have a sick society.
48:50 That's the way I look at it. >> Wedding next year because of this. He's a good man, but he said something about the women outside the court for Lindsay that really rubbed me the wrong way and I couldn't get over it. What did he say
49:03 about the women outside the courtroom? He said they all looked like crazy Karens.
49:07 >> My boy. There you go. There you go.
49:12 What do you think about a dysfunctional couple that can't make it work? Break up. Break up and find somebody else.
49:18 >> Pulling off a wedding to a good man because he dared called these freaks Karens. Holy dude dodged a nuclear bomb.
49:27 This whole phenomenon makes a lot more sense when you realize just how deeply true crime has infested female culture.
49:34 Women are significantly more likely than men to consume true crime content. Their brains have been absolutely fried by true crime and now they believe that like every murder has a secret twist.
49:45 Every villain is simply misunderstood. Not the detectives, not the FBI, not the lawyers, not the police who have been working on this for 3 years. No.
49:52 32-year-old Karen Smith from Ohio is going to crack the case right after Pilates. Trust me.
49:59 >> She He goes downstairs and he finds >> Look at this beautiful house.
50:06 This is a person who doesn't have any real problems.
50:10 If you live in a house this nice, you don't probably have any real problems.
50:17 Not in the manifest direct way that other people have real problems.
50:23 Like I'll say this about being a streamer, right? I don't have real problems other than like a handful of like weird streamer related things.
50:32 Other people have real problems. You live in that house. You don't have any real problems.
50:39 >> Her like this, right? And she's paralyzed. FIRST OF ALL, YOU'RE DEAD.
50:43 WELL, in Grey's Anatomy, they said you're not dead until you're warm and dead. can graze enough [laughter] >> they said >> oh my god >> you agree right ma'am justice for Kora Dawson and Ken three children that Lindsay Clancy k
50:56 >> I think it's pretty easy to comment and say a mother shouldn't kill her own kids agree >> yeah exactly why can't women say this >> do you feel like men >> are you a woman you should shut up
51:07 >> response to this trial has been fair >> I don't think a man should have any say in it honestly >> for most of human evolutionary history women had serious bi biological investment in pregnancy and raising children. They had to be extremely
51:20 attentive and aware of their social environments and surroundings. Can I eat these berries? Can my children eat these berries? Who can I trust? How do I maintain a safe relationship with my community and the rest of the herd?
51:32 While men, on the other hand, are more risk-taking, explorative, and had to distinguish themselves from other male competitors. This, of course, is painting with a broader. This is why, by the way, um, all of the male animals are
51:44 more attractive and appealing than female animals. Like a peacock, a male peacock versus a female peacock. We've talked about this a lot. I don't want to go through all of it, but this is the reason why men are
51:55 more attractive than women. >> Say, >> it's not gay. It's the opposite of gay >> here. This is not a bad thing. It's good that women and men are different. That's how society functions. of these instincts are used for the wrong things.
52:10 Men's risk takingaking gets them into deadly car crashes. A man's herd mentality gets them into defending Lindsay Clancy online.
52:17 >> Like I've seen women post about it, but I guess like I don't know. He's the one that did it.
52:22 >> Yeah. I don't know whether whether so he's not on trial. He's never been charged before.
52:25 >> No, but all the evidence I guess points to him.
52:28 >> They the defense is saying she's the killer.
52:30 >> Everybody knows she's not though. [laughter] It is important to remember that when you are arguing with a woman, you are not arguing with her. You are arguing with the 145 Tik Toks she watched that day. Normie women are having their
52:43 social media feeds flooded with other women, their community, people they trust, the herd talking about this situation. Females telling other females this is something they should care about gives a sort of faux community and they feel like they need to band together.
52:58 the sisterhood. Big part of this instinct is the fear of social ostriization from that sisterhood. You do not want to be exiled from the herd.
53:06 You do not want to be kicked out of the sisterhood. Well, jokes's on you. I'm too autistic to care about any of that Here comes tongue on boot to send for the patriarchy.
53:14 >> Oh yeah, they they hated her for this.
53:17 Like Shu always gets hate by other women.
53:21 Most of them are fat. I don't know if there's a co coincidence there or not. I just see they're a bunch of fat ugly hoes getting mad over nothing.
53:30 >> Imagine needing male attention this bad. Being a woman who doesn't support Lindsay Clancy feels like being one of the few gentlemen in the hood who didn't support Carmelo Anthony. [laughter] >> You pick me out here.
53:42 >> Breaking rank. Shame on you. It is always always us against the men.
53:50 >> Look at this. >> Dare you go rot with the rest of them.
53:53 I'm sorry I'm letting down the sisterhood of the traveling SSRIs by not supporting a murder. I [laughter] just think all the berries you're eating are poisonous and I think the herd is running off a cliff.
54:01 >> Stop thinking about these kids as people and think about them as ceramic vases.
54:05 >> No. >> What? Why? I mean, if you break a ceramic vase, you can put it back together, right? You can't do that with a kid. I'm pretty sure you can't.
54:15 >> No, I will not do that actually. Now, if you imagine all these dead prostitutes in my freezer are actually ice cream sandwiches, like >> what? Excuse me. What?
54:25 >> I want you to think of these kids as if they were very expensive ceramic vases in a museum. And instead of thinking about psychosis, we're going to think about epilepsy. So, imagine that Lindsay is in a museum and she is a person with
54:40 epilepsy. Weird how in the middle of breaking all these ceramic vases while having a seizure, she was able to take a call from her husband while he was at CVS and sound completely normal. Almost like she wasn't having a seizure while
54:52 she was breaking these ceramic vases. Apparently, same Lindsay was trending on Tik Tok where women post themselves holding their children with the caption, "Same Lindsay." What do you mean same Lindsay? The only implication there is that you will one day do the same thing
55:07 she did. Is that what you were saying here? Yeah, we should have CPSed all these women. CPS them. Uh, take their kids away, put them in a mental institution, and everything will be fine.
55:19 >> You are not Lindsay Clancy. You are stressed out and you are sad. I understand it's overwhelming sometimes, but this will pass. Stop projecting yourself onto a murderer. Postpartum depression is absolutely a real thing. I hate how this discourse has kind of
55:34 become like a debate whether or not it's real. It's absolutely real. Women's hormones are insane after they give birth. They just like >> uh all the time. But yeah, >> drop off aing cliff. Things get pretty bad. But for most women, like basically
55:47 all women have postpartum depression do not in fact murder their children. But here's the big thing with this entire case. Uh she's full of Yeah. A forensic psychologist assessed Lindsay over a 3-day period, and said that Lindsay has
56:02 bipolar disorder, has experienced no manic episodes, was not manic when she killed her children, never had psychosis, postpartum or otherwise, no hallucinations, meaning she lied about hearing voices, maintained full awareness during the crime, was in full
56:16 control of her actions, and understood the illegality and moral wrongness of her actions. In other words, she's a lying ass your honor. Both her PPD and PPP were self-dagnosed after all of this. Psychosis. My entire fat white
56:32 ass. I do not buy it for a second. It's like a non crazy person's idea of what a crazy person would sound like in order to get the insanity plea. Who the voices the voices only spoke to me one time and
56:44 it was conveniently when the only person who could protect the children was sent out of the house by me. Whoa. I can't say.
56:51 >> How convenient for her. What I want to say because I will be banned off of Weeny Hut Jr. tube. Andrea Yates drowned her five children in a bathtub in 2001.
57:01 She had a long medical history of depression, psychosis, and hearing voices. She believed that she was evil and the only way to save her children from her was to [clears throat] kill them. Andrea Yates had no public support. Nobody was rallying for her
57:13 mental health, probably because there was no social media back then to convince a bunch of stupid hogs that she was some kind of postbottom hero or something.
57:19 >> Thank you. Thank you. You need to call them hogs. That's what they are. That's what they are. It's not It's again, it's about the vocabulary. We talk about them in the way that they are.
57:33 >> But during her legal proceedings, she said she deserved punishment and wanted to be punished for killing her children.
57:39 Compare that to Lindsay Clancy, who allegedly immediately asked for a lawyer and is trying her hardest to get a lighter sentence. If I went crazy and killed my children, I would not want to be alive. This is so guilty. It's
57:53 crazy. >> This young lady did nothing wrong in her life. She was a nurse, >> a daughter, a wife.
58:01 >> Yeah. >> And a dang good mother.
58:03 >> Oh, she was a good girl. >> No, I mean, not. I mean, if you kill the kids, I feel like that makes you a bad mom. Like, I mean, I feel like if you if if I don't know, it's like saying that
58:12 you're a good driver if you crash a car.
58:14 I mean, that's I mean, not really, though, right? I mean, like, damn.
58:18 >> He didn't do nothing. >> This is a prosecution that has ripped the soul out of this girl.
58:23 >> That girl literally ripped the soul out of soul to begin with girl. But, okay.
58:29 There's no accountability ever. Ever. Ever. No accountability whatsoever. You could do the most evil thing on earth and there's no accountability. It's not your fault. It's not your fault. It's the doctor's fault. It's your husband's fault. You were let down. You're just a
58:41 perpetual victim of the universe. She's just a girl, your honor. Holy. In the book, The Goddess That Failed by Janice Famango, Janice writes, "Women are benign and men are dangerous. Even when we are aware of women and men committing
58:54 similar violent acts, we interpret the acts differently, imputing cruel motives to men and helplessness to the women. We excuse women's violence with emphasis on emotional stress or mental illness.
59:05 >> The real reason why we do this is because women's violence and women's behavior is really of no consequence.
59:14 Like nobody really cares. Like some woman has a crash out or something like that. Doesn't matter. A guy has a crash out and there's like 30 people that are dead, right? I mean like that's unless you're a kid. Well, I mean like but it's
59:29 extremely rare and and honestly fathers kill their kids all the time too, right?
59:34 Like overwhelmingly women women's aggression isn't treated as seriously as men's because it's not as consequential as men's.
59:44 It's just the truth. No consequences. These kids are dead.
59:49 Are you hearing yourself? You You seem to be emotional.
59:54 You seem to be emotional about this. I'm not emotional about this. You're not listening to what's being discussed.
1:00:01 >> Women's violence is a cry for help.
1:00:03 Men's is assertion of power. As a result, even when women harm the most vulnerable among us, we are unwilling to condemn the acts, fully punish the perpetrators, or revise our belief in female moral innocence. Also, every other Tik Tok video supporting
1:00:17 Lindsay Clancy had the same song. I can't post it because YouTube is ridiculous, but I'll just try and sing it. Everyday I'm a woman [singing and music] taking care of babies. I'm going crazy.
1:00:28 I got to do the dishes. you, dad. I swear to God, I think the song is called Labor by Never. Look it up. And it's become like the psychotic woman national anthem. These people are so dramatic and corny. And while I was watching these
1:00:42 corny ass Tik Toks, all I kept thinking about was the kids. How scared and confused they probably were while their own mother, the person that was supposed to protect them, the person they trusted betrayed them like that. Like, how do
1:00:56 you do that? One by one. And they're not little kids. They're not all little babies. like they struggled. Kids are so innocent. Their world is so small. All they know is this is the part we saw and their toys and their safe home that was
1:01:11 just all taken from them in cold blood.
1:01:12 And like we're supposed to feel bad for her. She's the real victim. She was sad.
1:01:18 We have to go wear pink and march for her. No. All these women did was make a murderer a millionaire and get America closer to repealing the 19th. No, serious.
1:01:27 >> Thank you. Thank you ladies. Thank you.
1:01:31 You'll Yeah. And and you'll you'll you'll appreciate it after this burden of suffering or sorry, suffrage uh has been alleviated.
1:01:41 Uh you know, everything will be better. Just trust me, you'll be fine. You'll be so much happier. Because of this, repeal the 19th was trending on Twitter for like multiple days. Honestly, at this point, if I have to give up my vote so
1:01:54 pitbull mama 78 also loses her vote, that is a sacrifice. I am willing to make.
1:02:00 >> So, as I am filming right now, the jury has decided.
1:02:04 They haven't decided yet. Yeah. Awesome. I don't know why the it's taken so long. Maybe by the time you guys watch this, they came to a conclusion, but right now there is none.
1:02:13 >> Over 24 hours of deliberations and still no way in the Lindsay Clancy murder trial. If the jury remains deadlocked, a retrial is still possible. Also, some crazy woman named Dawn Light, a Clancy supporter and quote crime junkie, was
1:02:28 just arrested for yelling at the jury. So, this is just an absolute >> I feel like if you're a crime junkie, you should know that you can't with the the jury, right? You shouldn't just know this >> circus. And I have no idea what is going
1:02:41 to happen. In conclusion, Lindsay Clancy admitted she did it. There's no evidence her husband did it. She was never diagnosed with postpartum psychosis. She had plenty resources. She had tons of help. She purposely told her husband to go on a long errand so she could do what
1:02:55 she wanted to. She was not failed by the system. She failed herself. And most of all, she failed those children. She betrayed them like an evil demonic from hell. She deserves to rot in prison or worse. So that was that video. That
1:03:08 is my opinion. Subscribe if you liked this video and you agree.
1:03:12 based by the way. I totally ag totally agree with everything she's saying. Like it's actually such a huge problem that people are sitting on social media agreeing with each other like this. And I think that now like I'm
1:03:24 glad that this has happened because now you have more people discussing the biological differences in thinking.
1:03:32 There's always been like a stigma at least as long as I've been alive about acknowledging that there are differences in people that are not visual.
1:03:44 like any sort of acknowledgment that thinking is different, IQ is different, temperament is different, emotions are different. This has always been a forbidden topic.
1:03:56 Finally, now that's stopping. And and now we're talking about it again, which is good with me. If you didn't argue in the comments, I don't know. What do you think of this? And yeah, um I love you
1:04:11 guys. Take care of yourselves. log off. Go touch grass and I will see you next time.
1:04:18 >> Wow. I got to link you guys this video. What an insanely good video. Sorry, I'm hungry. I'm eating beef jerky. It happened the other way around. No sane woman would be calling for that man if he was ugly to be Charlie Kirk. Yeah, of
1:04:30 course. Yeah, there's the video. Make sure to give it a like. I mean, I agree with everything that she's been saying. I feel like everybody knew that she was going to make a video about this and it's like, yeah, it was that good. It
1:04:43 [snorts] was insanely good. I wish that more people realized how bad this is. Men will make the gender war.
1:04:50 I think that there's always been like there there will there will always be a problem with something like that as long as you have people that are making excuses and stopping this bad behavior.
1:05:04 She's great. Yes, she is. Do you think if she was black that she would have gotten the same support? No.
1:05:10 Um, I think that white women see themselves in her and because she's white and they're white, I think that she would have received different support. I think that a person's identity is crucial and foundational to the way that they get supported on
1:05:24 social media. Most people are just tribe animals. They are they're just tribe animals. That's it. There's no complication to it. It's not hard to understand. It's just that simple.
1:05:40 I eat my food real quick. You ever realize I breed like a hog and I indulge in beef jerky? It's because I talk and eat at the same time. That's why white women are the most privileged
1:05:54 people ever in the West. No. White women are the priv White in the West are the most privileged class of people of all time in all of history. And it's not even remotely close. It's actually insane.
1:06:09 That's why you gag. Yeah, sure. And uh yeah, if you eat, boy, I can't. I I have to. I just whenever I'm streaming, this is why I don't like to eat during stream, but I just get hungry sometimes.
1:06:21 I have to. I'm move away from me.
1:06:26 Worst sounds. I know. I'm sorry, guys. You got to eat, bro. Yeah.
1:06:39 Anyway, so yes, E burger. Yeah, sure. And spoiled white men just want to be the biggest victim in the room. Well, there's one group they try and one up each other's trauma. Yeah, of course.
1:06:48 And and the reason and and that's why they've invented all these mental disorders for themselves, right? It's because they want to feel oppressed.
1:06:57 They want to feel like the world is against them and they are victims and they are minorities and they have some solidarity because one way that you can really hack people's psychology is you play into guilt. Like if you play into
1:07:12 guilt with a woman, it almost always works because it just hijacks their brain. like e each individual person that you know like each person that you deal with you have to understand that like you know you have to take there's
1:07:26 like different boss mechanics for each person >> basically same with the gender identities. Yeah it is.
1:07:32 >> White women's podcast reinforce this delusion. Well, it's a self it's a self-reinforcing paradigm, right?
