[00:00] A trailblazing leader in government, business, and philanthropy. business, and philanthropy. &gt;&gt; A former presidential adviser to Donald &gt;&gt; A former presidential adviser to Donald Trump, Dina Pal McCormack joined Meta Trump, Dina Pal McCormack joined Meta Platforms as president and vice Platforms as president and vice chairwoman. chairwoman. &gt;&gt; She'll help lead the company's massive &gt;&gt; She'll help lead the company's massive AI expansion, including data centers, AI expansion, including data centers, investments, and global partnerships. investments, and global partnerships. &gt;&gt; Powell McCormack's background is exactly &gt;&gt; Powell McCormack's background is exactly where Meta's new bottlenecks are. where Meta's new bottlenecks are. &gt;&gt; There is a transformation in humanity &gt;&gt; There is a transformation in humanity coming. Nothing can stop that now with coming. Nothing can stop that now with this technology. 3.5 billion people this technology. 3.5 billion people every day are on Meta. I think we all every day are on Meta. I think we all know that the next three years could be know that the next three years could be the whole game. Women are the secret the whole game. Women are the secret sauce. sauce. How about that? How about that? &gt;&gt; Please welcome Dena Powell McCormick. see you. Thanks for coming out.

[00:01] &gt;&gt; Hey, good to see you. All right, good to see you. see you. &gt;&gt; How are you? &gt;&gt; How are you? Dina, thank you for being here. Um, you Dina, thank you for being here. Um, you know, we were just finishing up a know, we were just finishing up a conversation with Satcha about how do we conversation with Satcha about how do we tell the story about the benefit of data tell the story about the benefit of data centers and what they're doing to centers and what they're doing to communities and why they're actually net communities and why they're actually net economically positive. And I know you so economically positive. And I know you so I'm going to get right into it because I I'm going to get right into it because I know you actually have a video on this. know you actually have a video on this. Do you want to just start with your Do you want to just start with your video? Would that be okay? video? Would that be okay? &gt;&gt; That'd be great. I mean, I just want to &gt;&gt; That'd be great. I mean, I just want to say so psyched uh to be at the All-In say so psyched uh to be at the All-In Summit, first time to speak, and as long Summit, first time to speak, and as long as this episode and panel gets way more as this episode and panel gets way more listeners and views than Senator listeners and views than Senator McCormix did when he came on, I'll be McCormix did when he came on, I'll be very, very happy with that. So, now we very, very happy with that. So, now we can now we can roll the tape. No can now we can roll the tape. No competition. competition. &gt;&gt; Good. We'll put it on Poly Market. Let's &gt;&gt; Good. We'll put it on Poly Market. Let's watch the video. &gt;&gt; Richmond Parish was the place that opportunity forgot about.

[00:02] I've grown up here my whole life and I've seen a lot of people move away I've seen a lot of people move away looking for work, including my son. What you were hearing a lot lately was there's nothing here for us anymore. We knew that having a data center would give us an industry here that we haven't give us an industry here that we haven't had before. That's a huge investment in had before. That's a huge investment in our community. our community. We started this business simply because We started this business simply because meta was coming. We thought we had hit it big when we got to cater for 40 people. Now we do 400 a to cater for 40 people. Now we do 400 a week. week. &gt;&gt; Since Meta came to town, we've hired

[00:03] &gt;&gt; Since Meta came to town, we've hired more employees. more employees. &gt;&gt; A multi-billion dollar capital &gt;&gt; A multi-billion dollar capital investment like the one that Meta is investment like the one that Meta is making in Richland Parish is it was making in Richland Parish is it was transformative. It's extremely exciting transformative. It's extremely exciting to attract and retain quality teachers. So, when I first got the news about the bonus, it was jaw-dropping. My mouth was bonus, it was jaw-dropping. My mouth was literally wide open. literally wide open. We're not in it for the money. We're We're not in it for the money. We're teachers because it's in our heart. But teachers because it's in our heart. But the bonus has been extremely helpful. &gt;&gt; With the investment that Meta has made in our community, now we can do a better in our community, now we can do a better job of taking care of our home. job of taking care of our home. &gt;&gt; I do feel a lot of hope for the future &gt;&gt; I do feel a lot of hope for the future of my students. It gives them the of my students. It gives them the opportunity they never thought that they opportunity they never thought that they would have. would have. And I would say one of the biggest And I would say one of the biggest things is people coming back home. &gt;&gt; You know, the future's happening here and happening now.

[00:04] &gt;&gt; You have some folks from the video here. &gt;&gt; I do. Can come on out. Come on out, &gt;&gt; I do. Can come on out. Come on out, &gt;&gt; Sheldon. and Susan, we have the &gt;&gt; Sheldon. and Susan, we have the superintendent superintendent from that video, the superintendent in from that video, the superintendent in Richland Parish. &gt;&gt; Thanks for joining us. Pleasure. &gt;&gt; Hi, sir. &gt;&gt; Hi, sir. &gt;&gt; Thanks for joining us. Hi, how are you? &gt;&gt; Thanks for joining us. Hi, how are you? Come on down. Come on down. &gt;&gt; Good to meet you. How are you? &gt;&gt; Good to meet you. How are you? &gt;&gt; Thank you for being here. &gt;&gt; Thank you for being here. &gt;&gt; Thanks for having us. &gt;&gt; Thanks for having us. &gt;&gt; You want to do an introduction? &gt;&gt; You want to do an introduction? &gt;&gt; Sure. What an honor. It's an honor uh &gt;&gt; Sure. What an honor. It's an honor uh for me to be here with Sheldon and for me to be here with Sheldon and Susan. Uh we've spent a lot of time in Susan. Uh we've spent a lot of time in Louisiana. It's our largest data center Louisiana. It's our largest data center investment uh for Meta and I've been investment uh for Meta and I've been with them in Louisiana. And what is with them in Louisiana. And what is remarkable to me is just the leadership

[00:05] remarkable to me is just the leadership that frankly the governor has shown. that frankly the governor has shown. Susan is the commerce secretary for Susan is the commerce secretary for Louisiana, the economic development um Louisiana, the economic development um secretary, and Sheldon uh who I'm going secretary, and Sheldon uh who I'm going to let him speak for himself, but he is to let him speak for himself, but he is such an inspirational figure there. and such an inspirational figure there. and he is the one that realized that because he is the one that realized that because of our investment the tax surplus would of our investment the tax surplus would go straight to teachers and maybe you go straight to teachers and maybe you can talk just a little bit about that. can talk just a little bit about that. &gt;&gt; Yes. So it's great to be here. Um I just &gt;&gt; Yes. So it's great to be here. Um I just think back to my first interaction with think back to my first interaction with Meta. Uh it was in the summer of 2024 Meta. Uh it was in the summer of 2024 and um it was at our local community and um it was at our local community college and I just remember after the college and I just remember after the meeting getting in my car and uh it's meeting getting in my car and uh it's hot in Louisiana so I turned the air on hot in Louisiana so I turned the air on and I just sat there and I said the game and I just sat there and I said the game has changed. Um this is going to give has changed. Um this is going to give our parish an opportunity to do our parish an opportunity to do something that it's never been able to something that it's never been able to do. So, when the groundbreaking ceremony

[00:06] do. So, when the groundbreaking ceremony happened in December of 2024, happened in December of 2024, um I could immediately start to see the um I could immediately start to see the increase in our sales tax collections. increase in our sales tax collections. Um there are six taxing entities in our Um there are six taxing entities in our parish. The Richland Parish School Board parish. The Richland Parish School Board collects 51% of the taxes for the collects 51% of the taxes for the district. Um, so I was able to see the district. Um, so I was able to see the sales tax collections go from 5% 10% sales tax collections go from 5% 10% which is normal for a school system to which is normal for a school system to about 60 or 70%. And at that time the about 60 or 70%. And at that time the number of workers at the data center number of workers at the data center site increased. Um, those collections site increased. Um, those collections peaked at about 260%. peaked at about 260%. That's an increase in sales tax That's an increase in sales tax collections. Um, and so we have a 1 cent collections. Um, and so we have a 1 cent and a 1/2 cent sales tax that's and a 1/2 cent sales tax that's dedicated to employee salaries. And so dedicated to employee salaries. And so we're announcing these sales tax we're announcing these sales tax increases at our schoolboard meetings. increases at our schoolboard meetings. And we're educators, so people can do And we're educators, so people can do the math. the math. They start to figure out this is going

[00:07] They start to figure out this is going to translate into a larger sales tax to translate into a larger sales tax check, which directly goes into our check, which directly goes into our salaries. So in December of 2025, we salaries. So in December of 2025, we gave out a 1 half cent sales tax check. gave out a 1 half cent sales tax check. That check doubled from the previous That check doubled from the previous year. So it went from roughly about year. So it went from roughly about $4,000 to about $8,000, but we hadn't $4,000 to about $8,000, but we hadn't seen a full year of spiked increases in seen a full year of spiked increases in sales tax collections. That happened sales tax collections. That happened this past June. Uh, so our certified this past June. Uh, so our certified employees received an increase of about employees received an increase of about $40,000 in their sales tax. $40,000 in their sales tax. &gt;&gt; $40,000 check. &gt;&gt; $40,000 check. &gt;&gt; They got a $50,000 check. &gt;&gt; They got a $50,000 check. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; So the check the previous year was &gt;&gt; So the check the previous year was $10,000. $10,000. So if you take that December increase So if you take that December increase and the June increase, it was a a net of

[00:08] and the June increase, it was a a net of about $45,000 about $45,000 for our teachers. for our teachers. &gt;&gt; Did they all Cuz the reason Dina and I &gt;&gt; Did they all Cuz the reason Dina and I were talking about this panel and were talking about this panel and everyone hates data centers. They pull everyone hates data centers. They pull 80 in the United States. And Dina was 80 in the United States. And Dina was telling me the story and I was like, we telling me the story and I was like, we should tell this story because it is should tell this story because it is unbelievable. Did the teachers and the unbelievable. Did the teachers and the community have this negative sentiment community have this negative sentiment about data centers before? Were they about data centers before? Were they all, we hate data centers, we don't want all, we hate data centers, we don't want them here or was that before this wave them here or was that before this wave happened and the community didn't really happened and the community didn't really kind of pay much attention to it? kind of pay much attention to it? &gt;&gt; I think initially there was the unknown. &gt;&gt; I think initially there was the unknown. Um, and we are we are the beginning. Um, and we are we are the beginning. We're a starting point. There was no We're a starting point. There was no reference for us to to access. We reference for us to to access. We couldn't say, "Okay, well, when the last couldn't say, "Okay, well, when the last time, when was the last time we had a time, when was the last time we had a $50 billion capital investment in our $50 billion capital investment in our schools?" So, how did we handle that? schools?" So, how did we handle that? So, yeah, where, you know, a few million So, yeah, where, you know, a few million dollars, that's that's that's huge for dollars, that's that's that's huge for us. So, um, there was there was anxious

[00:09] us. So, um, there was there was anxious thoughts. Um, I think Meta has done an thoughts. Um, I think Meta has done an excellent job of informing us and excellent job of informing us and educating us and that's going to have to educating us and that's going to have to continue to happen. Oftent times this continue to happen. Oftent times this communication is not about the most for communication is not about the most for informed person in the community. It's informed person in the community. It's about the least informed person in the about the least informed person in the community. So, we're working to make community. So, we're working to make sure that we continue to get that sure that we continue to get that positive message out about the good positive message out about the good things that are happening because there things that are happening because there are a lot of good things that are are a lot of good things that are happening in our parish. happening in our parish. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I think to the superintendent's &gt;&gt; Yeah. I think to the superintendent's point, um, Louisiana was a little bit point, um, Louisiana was a little bit late to the data center game, which has late to the data center game, which has actually worked remarkably well to our actually worked remarkably well to our benefit in that the the meta investment benefit in that the the meta investment was the first one in the state. Um and was the first one in the state. Um and because of the partnership, the way um because of the partnership, the way um we negotiated the deal, I call it a a we negotiated the deal, I call it a a partnership, not a negotiation, frankly, partnership, not a negotiation, frankly, all all along. Um the community when we all all along. Um the community when we first brought the idea even prior to you first brought the idea even prior to you knowing, superintendent, um the knowing, superintendent, um the community wasn't apprehensive because community wasn't apprehensive because there was a great deal of unknown. Now,

[00:10] there was a great deal of unknown. Now, keep in mind this was now about 20 keep in mind this was now about 20 months ago is when we started the months ago is when we started the conversation there. Um so, so the the conversation there. Um so, so the the chatter wasn't as much as it is now. But chatter wasn't as much as it is now. But you're talking about a community that you're talking about a community that was really starved for opportunity. As was really starved for opportunity. As you saw in the video, you know, we had you saw in the video, you know, we had lost population. Uh the average wages in lost population. Uh the average wages in Richland Parish were roughly 36 $38,000 Richland Parish were roughly 36 $38,000 a year prior to this investment. So, um, a year prior to this investment. So, um, the data center went to a place in the data center went to a place in Louisiana, you know, Mississippi Delta Louisiana, you know, Mississippi Delta Parish that was Mississippi River Delta. Parish that was Mississippi River Delta. Obviously, it was it was longing for Obviously, it was it was longing for this opportunity and we got ahead of this opportunity and we got ahead of that and I think we got ahead of that that and I think we got ahead of that very wisely in the way we um addressed very wisely in the way we um addressed both the concerns, the impact on the both the concerns, the impact on the community, um, the good impact on the community, um, the good impact on the community and the natural resources and community and the natural resources and all the things we're hearing right in a all the things we're hearing right in a weird way. And all of this noise is weird way. And all of this noise is actually somewhat beneficial in the actually somewhat beneficial in the sense that you may just want to go to sense that you may just want to go to Dena and say we'll just take all your

[00:11] Dena and say we'll just take all your data centers because you can't I mean I data centers because you can't I mean I mean quite honestly mean quite honestly &gt;&gt; I think our governor would actually &gt;&gt; I think our governor would actually continuous change in the in the earnings continuous change in the in the earnings potential of normal average Americans. potential of normal average Americans. &gt;&gt; Yeah. We the governor just signed an &gt;&gt; Yeah. We the governor just signed an executive order a few months ago executive order a few months ago creating a framework for us under which creating a framework for us under which we will engage with large load users. we will engage with large load users. Right. And the privilege that it gives Right. And the privilege that it gives us now is we get to be choosy, right? We us now is we get to be choosy, right? We we have a a sales tax exemption which is we have a a sales tax exemption which is critical to be able to land an critical to be able to land an investment of this size and this scale. investment of this size and this scale. But now we get to really court who our But now we get to really court who our partners are going to be and the partners are going to be and the governor claims it all the time that governor claims it all the time that META really was the prototype for us and META really was the prototype for us and it set a very high standard. Um and it set a very high standard. Um and that's now the standard we're going to that's now the standard we're going to follow. We are not one of those states follow. We are not one of those states who is saying no. Um we are one of those who is saying no. Um we are one of those states that are saying yes and states that are saying yes and &gt;&gt; yeah. So &gt;&gt; yeah. So maybe you could help us with it's pretty maybe you could help us with it's pretty clear the economic case for you know clear the economic case for you know building uh and growing and creating building uh and growing and creating jobs. Take us through the list of valid

[00:12] jobs. Take us through the list of valid concerns communities have. One of them concerns communities have. One of them is pollution. I'm not sure if this is is pollution. I'm not sure if this is running off of gas or if it's all solar running off of gas or if it's all solar and renewables. Increased electricity and renewables. Increased electricity cost. Water closed loop versus non-clos cost. Water closed loop versus non-clos loop. Noise pollution and aesthetics. loop. Noise pollution and aesthetics. These buildings are awfully ugly These buildings are awfully ugly typically as created. Um, did any of typically as created. Um, did any of those apply? Did you get any of that those apply? Did you get any of that feedback from the community? feedback from the community? &gt;&gt; Our journalist. &gt;&gt; Our journalist. &gt;&gt; What's that? &gt;&gt; What's that? &gt;&gt; Our journalist. &gt;&gt; Our journalist. &gt;&gt; No, no, no. Actually, it's not &gt;&gt; No, no, no. Actually, it's not journalism. Actually, what it is is it's journalism. Actually, what it is is it's facts, Saxs. These are the facts of Dina facts, Saxs. These are the facts of Dina the people. Hold on, I'll finish. Uh, the people. Hold on, I'll finish. Uh, these are the facts that community these are the facts that community members have valid concerns about. There members have valid concerns about. There are people who have had data centers put are people who have had data centers put next to them that are polluting, that next to them that are polluting, that are creating noise, and there are valid are creating noise, and there are valid water concerns, and there are water concerns, and there are communities where their electricity went communities where their electricity went up. So, I'm asking a serious question up. So, I'm asking a serious question based on facts. I'm wondering if any of based on facts. I'm wondering if any of those apply to you. those apply to you. &gt;&gt; Yeah, Janie, you said this was going to &gt;&gt; Yeah, Janie, you said this was going to be easy. No, no, no. Um, yeah, clearly, be easy. No, no, no. Um, yeah, clearly, you know, we're all people, right? We you know, we're all people, right? We all hear, we all have the same concerns.

[00:13] all hear, we all have the same concerns. Um, again, some of it was that we got Um, again, some of it was that we got very lucky with the timing of all this very lucky with the timing of all this because those issues were addressed because those issues were addressed before they became in the public forum before they became in the public forum of issues. You know, number one, this of issues. You know, number one, this was farmland. This was agricultural was farmland. This was agricultural land. Um, and early on in the land. Um, and early on in the conversations with with the Meta team. conversations with with the Meta team. Um, they they made a decision to use a Um, they they made a decision to use a more expensive but more efficient system more expensive but more efficient system that actually uses less water than was that actually uses less water than was being used on that land when it was being used on that land when it was being farmed. Right? It's not a being farmed. Right? It's not a statistic you hear very often. The statistic you hear very often. The second piece about the energy, clearly second piece about the energy, clearly we're we're hearing it um across the we're we're hearing it um across the board, but there are two really critical board, but there are two really critical components to this. Number one is that components to this. Number one is that Louisiana has abundant natural gas. We Louisiana has abundant natural gas. We have about 32,000 miles of natural gas have about 32,000 miles of natural gas pipelines in Louisiana today if we don't pipelines in Louisiana today if we don't add another mile. So, we have access to add another mile. So, we have access to natural gas everywhere. Um but but in natural gas everywhere. Um but but in the in the relationship that Meta the in the relationship that Meta created with Entury, the the energy created with Entury, the the energy provider there, um from day one, before provider there, um from day one, before this was a an executive order from the this was a an executive order from the president or even the governor, Meta

[00:14] president or even the governor, Meta paid for its own generation. It paid for paid for its own generation. It paid for grid resilience. It paid for grid grid resilience. It paid for grid upgrades. It paid for storm costs. upgrades. It paid for storm costs. Louisiana has storm assessments when we Louisiana has storm assessments when we have hurricanes. It happens every now have hurricanes. It happens every now and then. It's paying for storm costs in and then. It's paying for storm costs in a state where they didn't operate right a state where they didn't operate right when these hurricanes hit. So, it's when these hurricanes hit. So, it's actually taking burdens off of the actually taking burdens off of the Louisiana consumer. Um, so all those Louisiana consumer. Um, so all those issues were issues and they were issues were issues and they were addressed with the original um addressed with the original um negotiated deal. And I will say it's negotiated deal. And I will say it's really why it's become the prototype for really why it's become the prototype for how we move forward with others. how we move forward with others. &gt;&gt; This is a question for you. You used to &gt;&gt; This is a question for you. You used to be the deputy national security adviser. be the deputy national security adviser. So answer this maybe with just a bit of So answer this maybe with just a bit of that hat on. I mean Jason brings up that hat on. I mean Jason brings up valid concerns but then there's this valid concerns but then there's this data that is so clear for you but also data that is so clear for you but also for others. I mean you just heard from for others. I mean you just heard from Satya. Why is this misinformation Satya. Why is this misinformation campaign winning so soundly in America? campaign winning so soundly in America? &gt;&gt; What has happened? Like what is going &gt;&gt; What has happened? Like what is going on? on? &gt;&gt; Sure. Well, I think first the questions &gt;&gt; Sure. Well, I think first the questions that Jason raised are really legitimate that Jason raised are really legitimate questions. And I think we start with a questions. And I think we start with a premise that if a community doesn't want premise that if a community doesn't want one of our data centers, they get to

[00:15] one of our data centers, they get to choose. They get to decide. But that we choose. They get to decide. But that we actually have to upfront and way more actually have to upfront and way more aggressively explain what our investment aggressively explain what our investment and partnership means. And we have a and partnership means. And we have a compact, a compact that Susan and compact, a compact that Susan and Sheldon are describing. First, not just Sheldon are describing. First, not just pay for your own electricity. Make sure pay for your own electricity. Make sure that you're working to drive electricity that you're working to drive electricity costs down. The second is the water costs down. The second is the water issue. It's very real in farmlands and issue. It's very real in farmlands and rural communities, but there's rural communities, but there's absolutely now new technology, in fact, absolutely now new technology, in fact, AIdriven technology that makes you able AIdriven technology that makes you able to uh actually increase water to uh actually increase water consumption. The third is the teachers. consumption. The third is the teachers. I'll be very honest, this was not our I'll be very honest, this was not our idea. This actually happened because idea. This actually happened because this law uh allows or in fact mandates this law uh allows or in fact mandates that every extra dollar of tax surplus that every extra dollar of tax surplus goes directly to the teachers and the goes directly to the teachers and the superintendent was telling me things superintendent was telling me things that just are so remarkable. Used to that just are so remarkable. Used to have a hard time recruiting teachers. have a hard time recruiting teachers. Now his phone is ringing off the hook Now his phone is ringing off the hook throughout Louisiana. Teachers wanting throughout Louisiana. Teachers wanting to come there and this may end up being to come there and this may end up being the best school district um in the the best school district um in the entire state. And now we have taken that entire state. And now we have taken that learning and we're investing in teachers

[00:16] learning and we're investing in teachers and first responders. And you saw of and first responders. And you saw of course the economic development impact course the economic development impact for small businesses. That's our compact for small businesses. That's our compact everywhere we go. Meta um makes sure everywhere we go. Meta um makes sure that we makes sure that we do those that we makes sure that we do those things. But to answer your question, things. But to answer your question, Shimoth, I don't think that our industry Shimoth, I don't think that our industry has done a good job communicating just has done a good job communicating just just flat out we have to do a better just flat out we have to do a better job. But before you can communicate job. But before you can communicate anything, you've actually got to be anything, you've actually got to be meaningful and have real impact. And so meaningful and have real impact. And so we've started with the premise that we we've started with the premise that we want to be the best actor and the best want to be the best actor and the best partner possible. and now having frankly partner possible. and now having frankly the impact that we see in Louisiana. the impact that we see in Louisiana. We're very proud of the impact we're We're very proud of the impact we're having in Texas and Ohio, but I think we having in Texas and Ohio, but I think we have to tell these stories more. And I have to tell these stories more. And I know you're alluding to where is this know you're alluding to where is this information coming from? You know, I was information coming from? You know, I was just with um Chairman Cotton and Vice just with um Chairman Cotton and Vice Chairman Mark Warner and the Chairman Mark Warner and the intelligence committees. You know, they intelligence committees. You know, they do believe they have evidence that our do believe they have evidence that our adversaries are trying to jin this up. I adversaries are trying to jin this up. I can't comment on that, but what I can can't comment on that, but what I can tell you is if you wanted to stop tell you is if you wanted to stop America right now, what would you do? America right now, what would you do? This is exactly what you would try to This is exactly what you would try to do. if you were any of our adversaries,

[00:17] do. if you were any of our adversaries, you would want us to stop building data you would want us to stop building data centers in the United States so that we centers in the United States so that we could uh you know, we we would not be on could uh you know, we we would not be on a path to being AI uh dominant in the a path to being AI uh dominant in the world. This is what you would do. So world. This is what you would do. So whether they're doing it or not, this is whether they're doing it or not, this is definitely an approach you would take. definitely an approach you would take. And I I actually said to them very And I I actually said to them very respectfully, these are great jobs and respectfully, these are great jobs and the communities that want the jobs, want the communities that want the jobs, want the teacher bonuses, want these the teacher bonuses, want these investments should be allowed to have investments should be allowed to have them. and those that don't should opt them. and those that don't should opt out. But we certainly don't want uh our out. But we certainly don't want uh our companies, our my company and our peers companies, our my company and our peers to start thinking about building data to start thinking about building data centers. centers. &gt;&gt; It's so easy to debunk these issues. The &gt;&gt; It's so easy to debunk these issues. The water one is the one that just water one is the one that just confounding that confounding that that confounding that confounding that that narrative keeps staying alive. I think narrative keeps staying alive. I think you did an amazing job. you did an amazing job. &gt;&gt; There's a clip on X of this woman with &gt;&gt; There's a clip on X of this woman with this bottle of dirty water that she this bottle of dirty water that she trucks around and and you're just like trucks around and and you're just like &gt;&gt; so good. &gt;&gt; so good. &gt;&gt; There's there's there's no &gt;&gt; There's there's there's no &gt;&gt; You know what? You know what I love? I &gt;&gt; You know what? You know what I love? I love that it's a federated republic that love that it's a federated republic that the founders designed and some states the founders designed and some states are going to win, some states are going are going to win, some states are going to be idiots and they're going to lose to be idiots and they're going to lose and you know, you guys are going to have

[00:18] and you know, you guys are going to have this incredible economic advantage. this incredible economic advantage. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I do want to add to to Dena's &gt;&gt; Yeah, I do want to add to to Dena's point as well, just as the teachers are point as well, just as the teachers are calling Sheldon to consider going to his calling Sheldon to consider going to his parish to teach. The minute that got parish to teach. The minute that got announced um that y'all were giving announced um that y'all were giving $50,000 bonuses, I can't tell you how $50,000 bonuses, I can't tell you how many leaders of rural parishes in many leaders of rural parishes in Louisiana called me and said, Louisiana called me and said, "Secretary, do do y'all have any who are "Secretary, do do y'all have any who are considering our parish? Please bring one considering our parish? Please bring one here." So, so the global narrative is here." So, so the global narrative is not happening in Louisiana. I frankly, I not happening in Louisiana. I frankly, I don't believe it's happening everywhere don't believe it's happening everywhere the way the propaganda the way the propaganda &gt;&gt; calling you from across the country like &gt;&gt; calling you from across the country like other states saying, "Is this real? How other states saying, "Is this real? How did this work?" and starting to kind of did this work?" and starting to kind of lean in and see if they can participate. lean in and see if they can participate. &gt;&gt; So, historically, one of the challenges &gt;&gt; So, historically, one of the challenges we've had as a rural school system is we've had as a rural school system is that our best and our brightest will that our best and our brightest will they they'll they'll do exceptionally they they'll they'll do exceptionally well in school. They may even go to our well in school. They may even go to our local universities, but but when they local universities, but but when they leave, I have a good idea in my head leave, I have a good idea in my head that they're not coming back to Richland that they're not coming back to Richland Parish because we can't offer jobs that

[00:19] Parish because we can't offer jobs that that attract them. So they they leave that attract them. So they they leave and they go to other states and they go and they go to other states and they go to other cities. And now we're able to to other cities. And now we're able to to to write our own narrative that if to to write our own narrative that if you want to leave and go, you can, but you want to leave and go, you can, but you don't have to. We have opportunity you don't have to. We have opportunity here for you here in Richland Parish. here for you here in Richland Parish. You have the ability to stay here to You have the ability to stay here to raise your family. And I think it's raise your family. And I think it's changing the narrative in our parish. changing the narrative in our parish. Well, Dina, I know you've got another Well, Dina, I know you've got another video for us to watch also on um how do video for us to watch also on um how do we get more workers to come and we get more workers to come and participate in this growing economy. Um participate in this growing economy. Um while we watch that, why don't we thank while we watch that, why don't we thank Susan and Sheldon for joining us. Thank Susan and Sheldon for joining us. Thank you both for being here. Thank you so you both for being here. Thank you so much. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much. Yeah, that was great. Fantas Thank you so much. Appreciate you very much. Appreciate you coming out. Thank much. Appreciate you coming out. Thank you so much.

[00:20] you so much. &gt;&gt; I've always wanted to do something big. &gt;&gt; I've always wanted to do something big. I know that this is the program that I I know that this is the program that I need to be in in order to discover that. need to be in in order to discover that. &gt;&gt; In order for a lot of technology to &gt;&gt; In order for a lot of technology to advance, we need the infrastructure. advance, we need the infrastructure. Meta is blessing these guys with the Meta is blessing these guys with the opportunity to be a part of that to help opportunity to be a part of that to help lay foundation for the future. lay foundation for the future. &gt;&gt; You can come into the program with no &gt;&gt; You can come into the program with no prior experience after you finish your prior experience after you finish your four weeks here, be able to go into the four weeks here, be able to go into the workforce. workforce. I'm grateful for this opportunity. I'm I'm grateful for this opportunity. I'm excited to actually get to do the work. excited to actually get to do the work. &gt;&gt; To have a group of students who are &gt;&gt; To have a group of students who are taking the opportunity serious and are taking the opportunity serious and are doing it with passion, that means doing it with passion, that means everything. everything. &gt;&gt; Once they're able to finish our course, &gt;&gt; Once they're able to finish our course, there's so many different paths that there's so many different paths that they can take. The more that we learn they can take. The more that we learn and establish this workforce, the more and establish this workforce, the more we can impact future generations. we can impact future generations. &gt;&gt; I feel like it will change the world. &gt;&gt; I feel like it will change the world. I'm ready to work.

[00:21] you were telling me a story about like a posting for fiber optic technician. Can posting for fiber optic technician. Can you just tell that story because I think you just tell that story because I think it's incredible. Sure. it's incredible. Sure. &gt;&gt; So, um, even in our site in Louisiana, &gt;&gt; So, um, even in our site in Louisiana, one of the issues is that we just can't one of the issues is that we just can't find enough workers and you really need find enough workers and you really need a set of obviously welders and pipe a set of obviously welders and pipe fitters and construction workers, fitters and construction workers, electricians. Uh but there's something electricians. Uh but there's something that every data center site really needs that every data center site really needs fiber technicians, the people that just fiber technicians, the people that just actually lay and cut the fiber. And we actually lay and cut the fiber. And we just could not find enough people. And just could not find enough people. And so we just made a curriculum and we so we just made a curriculum and we partnered with a few people CBRE and partnered with a few people CBRE and others. And uh we realized that this others. And uh we realized that this program just didn't exist. So we decided program just didn't exist. So we decided if you can do it for fiber technicians, if you can do it for fiber technicians, why not go beyond? It's a fiveweek why not go beyond? It's a fiveweek fasttrack training program where you get fasttrack training program where you get all of your safety training. You get uh all of your safety training. You get uh designated something called job site designated something called job site ready. So you can get the job. We at ready. So you can get the job. We at Meta guarantee you a job if you graduate Meta guarantee you a job if you graduate on one of our data center sites and you on one of our data center sites and you have that certification with you whether have that certification with you whether you want to stay at our site or you want to stay at our site or elsewhere. And the missing piece is that

[00:22] elsewhere. And the missing piece is that while there are, as David Saxs has said while there are, as David Saxs has said over and over again, there are 500,000 over and over again, there are 500,000 open jobs for these uh roles over the open jobs for these uh roles over the next couple of years, but there was this next couple of years, but there was this gap between people actually getting gap between people actually getting those jobs. And it's because it turns those jobs. And it's because it turns out if you're a waitress or you're an out if you're a waitress or you're an Uber driver or you are a home healthare Uber driver or you are a home healthare worker, you live paycheck to paycheck. worker, you live paycheck to paycheck. You cannot afford to take that time time You cannot afford to take that time time off unpaid. The training is weirdly very off unpaid. The training is weirdly very expensive. OSHA training and things like expensive. OSHA training and things like that. And what if you do that and you that. And what if you do that and you don't get a job? So we launched don't get a job? So we launched America's Workforce Academy. Uh we America's Workforce Academy. Uh we launched it I don't know four months launched it I don't know four months ago. 40,000 Americans applied. We've ago. 40,000 Americans applied. We've graduated 250 people graduated 250 people &gt;&gt; and we have a 90% retention rate. So &gt;&gt; and we have a 90% retention rate. So people that are getting into these people that are getting into these contractor jobs uh on our data center contractor jobs uh on our data center sites um you can see they've learned a sites um you can see they've learned a new trade, they've left behind a job new trade, they've left behind a job that wasn't as fulfilling and that of that wasn't as fulfilling and that of course every company that's hiring them course every company that's hiring them um is just thrilled. It's also something um is just thrilled. It's also something that's interesting, David, that you and

[00:23] that's interesting, David, that you and I talked about, which is we um have I talked about, which is we um have partners across the board in this partners across the board in this program. We called we didn't put META in program. We called we didn't put META in the name because we are so excited to be the name because we are so excited to be working with other companies that are working with other companies that are interested in recruiting these workers interested in recruiting these workers as well. Um, but we're working with the as well. Um, but we're working with the unions. Sean McGarvey, uh, the head of unions. Sean McGarvey, uh, the head of the trades, NABU, um, is a friend and we the trades, NABU, um, is a friend and we made a great partnership with him there. made a great partnership with him there. Some of those workers are on union Some of those workers are on union sites, some are non-union. But an sites, some are non-union. But an interesting voice that has emerged in interesting voice that has emerged in this debate is the unions. The union this debate is the unions. The union leadership now is saying, "We want to be leadership now is saying, "We want to be anti- the anti-data center backlash. anti- the anti-data center backlash. These are our jobs. These are for our These are our jobs. These are for our people." And so they actually put out people." And so they actually put out even before the midterms um a note even before the midterms um a note saying they are only going to support saying they are only going to support candidates that support data centers. candidates that support data centers. &gt;&gt; How much uh balance &gt;&gt; How much uh balance the big how much balance sheet capital the big how much balance sheet capital does it take to get this thing off the does it take to get this thing off the ground and do you see the other majors ground and do you see the other majors the big eight kind of joining forces and

[00:24] the big eight kind of joining forces and having this new educational track kind having this new educational track kind of become a deacto standard in America? of become a deacto standard in America? &gt;&gt; You know all of us are working on this. &gt;&gt; You know all of us are working on this. In fact, I just talked to Ruth Porat at In fact, I just talked to Ruth Porat at Google. She's done an incredible job um Google. She's done an incredible job um on workforce and she's actually brought on workforce and she's actually brought together uh we're we're going to join together uh we're we're going to join this alliance. Larry Frink at BlackRock this alliance. Larry Frink at BlackRock has joined the alliance. She's bringing has joined the alliance. She's bringing together other companies. You know, we together other companies. You know, we we might uh you know, might compete on we might uh you know, might compete on models and products, but we don't want models and products, but we don't want to compete on people. We we as an to compete on people. We we as an industry, I think, are doing this part industry, I think, are doing this part well where we're really working together well where we're really working together because anybody that gets trained to because anybody that gets trained to work on a metadata center site can work on a metadata center site can certainly go to a Google site or a certainly go to a Google site or a Microsoft site. And so this is a place Microsoft site. And so this is a place where we've really come together. where we've really come together. &gt;&gt; How do you how do you expand the &gt;&gt; How do you how do you expand the capacity? So there's 40,000 that capacity? So there's 40,000 that applied, but you picked 400. applied, but you picked 400. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; That's 39,600 that &gt;&gt; That's 39,600 that &gt;&gt; Yeah. And and and we started 4 months &gt;&gt; Yeah. And and and we started 4 months ago and now uh we're literally getting ago and now uh we're literally getting calls from Mary Bar at GM. I'll I'd like calls from Mary Bar at GM. I'll I'd like a thousand employees, you know, once you a thousand employees, you know, once you have the curriculum and the have the curriculum and the certification and the partners to certification and the partners to deliver it. Uh you can do these deliver it. Uh you can do these everywhere. We're doing them in everywhere. We're doing them in community colleges, VFW halls. In that

[00:25] community colleges, VFW halls. In that particular program, you actually have to particular program, you actually have to have a site that's kind of like a model have a site that's kind of like a model data center so that you can show how to data center so that you can show how to train the fiber technicians. But we're train the fiber technicians. But we're working with the Association of Builders working with the Association of Builders and Contractors. They have, you know, and Contractors. They have, you know, thousands and thousands of of uh places thousands and thousands of of uh places across the country where they operate. across the country where they operate. &gt;&gt; Why why is it so expensive outside of &gt;&gt; Why why is it so expensive outside of you guys basically backstopping this to you guys basically backstopping this to get something like job site ready and get something like job site ready and OSHA awareness? I mean this should seem OSHA awareness? I mean this should seem like you go online and like you go online and &gt;&gt; I think the thing that we unlocked is &gt;&gt; I think the thing that we unlocked is that we actually pay during the training that we actually pay during the training what you would get if you are already in what you would get if you are already in the job. It used to be that there's a the job. It used to be that there's a very low fee or an apprentice fee for so very low fee or an apprentice fee for so long that it wasn't you know it wasn't long that it wasn't you know it wasn't the full pay payment of the job. And so the full pay payment of the job. And so we do that from the beginning. Um, and we do that from the beginning. Um, and then of course these jobs. I mean, David then of course these jobs. I mean, David and I've been in Pittsburgh with with uh and I've been in Pittsburgh with with uh some of these workers and you know, some of these workers and you know, these are jobs. Welders make $120,000 a these are jobs. Welders make $120,000 a year in Pittsburgh. That is meaningful year in Pittsburgh. That is meaningful great work. And I think the unlock that great work. And I think the unlock that we're very proud of with this program is

[00:26] we're very proud of with this program is that there just wasn't a clear and fast that there just wasn't a clear and fast path to getting on the job site and to path to getting on the job site and to having a guaranteed job. having a guaranteed job. &gt;&gt; It's great that you have these jobs &gt;&gt; It's great that you have these jobs because with AI progressing so quickly, because with AI progressing so quickly, these developers are going to need these developers are going to need something to do. And so I think they can something to do. And so I think they can segue into electrician jobs. I'm kidding segue into electrician jobs. I'm kidding obviously. Uh but absolutely fantastic obviously. Uh but absolutely fantastic work on the data centers. Fully work on the data centers. Fully supported. Great job on the meta supported. Great job on the meta glasses. Amazing. And and this effort glasses. Amazing. And and this effort &gt;&gt; Where are your metagasses, Jason? I gave &gt;&gt; Where are your metagasses, Jason? I gave you such you such &gt;&gt; They're right here on the bag. I right &gt;&gt; They're right here on the bag. I right in my backpack. Uh they're they're No, in my backpack. Uh they're they're No, they're actually u super impressive. And they're actually u super impressive. And this effort this effort &gt;&gt; this effort is truly impressive. But you &gt;&gt; this effort is truly impressive. But you said you wanted me to do a fast ball or said you wanted me to do a fast ball or two. Uh, and you you didn't want it to two. Uh, and you you didn't want it to be be &gt;&gt; She didn't say that. Jal, &gt;&gt; She didn't say that. Jal, &gt;&gt; she literally asked me for at least one &gt;&gt; she literally asked me for at least one one fast. one fast. &gt;&gt; Jal fast ball. Uh, &gt;&gt; Jal fast ball. Uh, &gt;&gt; you did. Okay, so we'll just keep it all &gt;&gt; you did. Okay, so we'll just keep it all softball before you ask question. softball before you ask question. Please, please come back. Please, please come back. &gt;&gt; Go ahead, Jason. &gt;&gt; Go ahead, Jason. &gt;&gt; No, no, no. We can just go. We'll go &gt;&gt; No, no, no. We can just go. We'll go softballs. The boys prefer. Go ahead. Go softballs. The boys prefer. Go ahead. Go ahead. Well, I mean, we we have meta ahead. Well, I mean, we we have meta here and you just paid the largest

[00:27] here and you just paid the largest settlement in second only to the tobacco settlement in second only to the tobacco industry. Uh, and just ahead of BP oil, industry. Uh, and just ahead of BP oil, u, two of the biggest disasters this u, two of the biggest disasters this country ever faced. And this one is country ever faced. And this one is particularly tough particularly tough &gt;&gt; and they wonder why they call him fake &gt;&gt; and they wonder why they call him fake news. news. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um uh no I I I numbers are wrong. I'm I'm uh no I I I numbers are wrong. I'm I'm happy to talk about the meta glasses if happy to talk about the meta glasses if you prefer. you prefer. &gt;&gt; I'm so glad &gt;&gt; I'm so glad go read your effective altruism. go read your effective altruism. &gt;&gt; I'm actually really glad you asked me &gt;&gt; I'm actually really glad you asked me about it because about it because &gt;&gt; yeah well no let me finish the question. &gt;&gt; yeah well no let me finish the question. You you may not be You you may not be &gt;&gt; um so &gt;&gt; um so uh I'm going to lean in now so to speak. uh I'm going to lean in now so to speak. Um Um the the real I think challenge a lot of the the real I think challenge a lot of us have with Facebook as an organization us have with Facebook as an organization and and these are amazing. The videos and and these are amazing. The videos are super inspiring and well produced. are super inspiring and well produced. But you guys really did damage But you guys really did damage significant damage to children. You knew significant damage to children. You knew that these products were too addicting. that these products were too addicting. And the philosophy of the company from

[00:28] And the philosophy of the company from the beginning when Shamath was there, the beginning when Shamath was there, hey, move fast, break things, let's go hey, move fast, break things, let's go super fast. My my my sincere question is super fast. My my my sincere question is how has the culture changed inside of how has the culture changed inside of Facebook and you're making a new series Facebook and you're making a new series of potentially more addicting products of potentially more addicting products with character-based AI companions with with character-based AI companions with Muse as a product. So I'm curious what's Muse as a product. So I'm curious what's changed in the organization and what did changed in the organization and what did you learn from that record setting find you learn from that record setting find and something that is you could have and something that is you could have done a lot better on. done a lot better on. &gt;&gt; Um well I totally disagree with &gt;&gt; Um well I totally disagree with basically every single premise in your basically every single premise in your question. question. &gt;&gt; Totally fine. &gt;&gt; Totally fine. billion dollar settlement says billion dollar settlement says otherwise. otherwise. &gt;&gt; Do I get to speak or are you done with &gt;&gt; Do I get to speak or are you done with your 10-minute question? Um, okay. I your 10-minute question? Um, okay. I totally disagree with the premise of totally disagree with the premise of that. &gt;&gt; I've only been there eight months. I was on the board for a year and I can tell on the board for a year and I can tell you cuz I work with these people every you cuz I work with these people every day. They are really, really focused on day. They are really, really focused on ensuring that parents are empowered, ensuring that parents are empowered, teens are supported. And I couldn't be teens are supported. And I couldn't be actually more proud of the agreement actually more proud of the agreement that we just uh we just made. We made it

[00:29] that we just uh we just made. We made it with 52 bipartisan attorneys general with 52 bipartisan attorneys general across the United States and the across the United States and the territories. We are now setting industry territories. We are now setting industry standards. Uh we agreed that if uh your standards. Uh we agreed that if uh your state signed on with us that uh children state signed on with us that uh children under 18, not 16, can only be on our under 18, not 16, can only be on our platform for 2 hours a day. The app platform for 2 hours a day. The app shuts off after that and it completely shuts off after that and it completely shops shuts off at night. Uh there are shops shuts off at night. Uh there are no notifications during the school day no notifications during the school day at all of any kind. And frankly, parents at all of any kind. And frankly, parents have way more supervision now. Uh many, have way more supervision now. Uh many, many ways that they can decide what many ways that they can decide what their kids are on, how long they're on, their kids are on, how long they're on, and what they're seeing. And I think and what they're seeing. And I think that we're proud of that because if that we're proud of that because if others in our peer group joined, this others in our peer group joined, this could be pretty historic and could be pretty historic and gamechanging. And Jason, I'm a mom of gamechanging. And Jason, I'm a mom of six daughters, so this is really six daughters, so this is really personal to me. I watched them grow up personal to me. I watched them grow up in this in this generation, and I feel in this in this generation, and I feel that, you know, we really can actually that, you know, we really can actually find a way to come together. Um, the find a way to come together. Um, the reason your numbers were wrong on the reason your numbers were wrong on the settlement is because we actually agreed settlement is because we actually agreed to give an additional $5 billion and to

[00:30] to give an additional $5 billion and to go down to only one hour of use on our go down to only one hour of use on our platform if YouTube, Tik Tok, and Snap platform if YouTube, Tik Tok, and Snap join us because, as we know, join us because, as we know, as we know, people leave one set of apps as we know, people leave one set of apps and go to another. But wouldn't it be and go to another. But wouldn't it be pretty amazing in America if children pretty amazing in America if children under 18 could only be on apps for an under 18 could only be on apps for an hour a day, shut off at night? And I hour a day, shut off at night? And I don't I just think that's don't I just think that's &gt;&gt; 100% yes. &gt;&gt; 100% yes. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Do you think do you think it should be &gt;&gt; Do you think do you think it should be universal chimoth or do you think it universal chimoth or do you think it should be controlled by the parent like should be controlled by the parent like give the parent basic controls? What's give the parent basic controls? What's your view? your view? &gt;&gt; Well, it is meaning obviously a parent &gt;&gt; Well, it is meaning obviously a parent can override it but our app actually can override it but our app actually just does turn off. just does turn off. &gt;&gt; Obviously a parent. It's funny. I was in &gt;&gt; Obviously a parent. It's funny. I was in Texas this weekend at the Texas uh Ohio Texas this weekend at the Texas uh Ohio State game. you State game. you my alma mater. And um and it was really my alma mater. And um and it was really funny. I had so many uh people come up funny. I had so many uh people come up to me and say, you know, you know this to me and say, you know, you know this turning off because it it's literally turning off because it it's literally happening. Turning off Instagram is

[00:31] happening. Turning off Instagram is hurting college uh college recruiting, hurting college uh college recruiting, football recruiting. I'm like, what? football recruiting. I'm like, what? What are you talking about? In Texas, we What are you talking about? In Texas, we put all of our kids videos on Instagram put all of our kids videos on Instagram and they get recruited. So, it is and they get recruited. So, it is interesting. I said, well, we live in interesting. I said, well, we live in America. That's up to you. You can America. That's up to you. You can decide as a parent if you want to do decide as a parent if you want to do more. that it does actually shut off and more. that it does actually shut off and a parent has to override that. a parent has to override that. &gt;&gt; I think I think it's incredible. I &gt;&gt; I think I think it's incredible. I remember just being with my kids at the remember just being with my kids at the dinner table and my son was trying to dinner table and my son was trying to show me something and he had hit the show me something and he had hit the limit just turned off and there's limit just turned off and there's nothing and I was like this is nothing and I was like this is fantastic. You're like leave it off. fantastic. You're like leave it off. Like Like &gt;&gt; what's that? &gt;&gt; what's that? &gt;&gt; You're like just leave it off. You don't &gt;&gt; You're like just leave it off. You don't care. care. &gt;&gt; The reason is as a parent it's &gt;&gt; The reason is as a parent it's whack-a-ole. whack-a-ole. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Because the content is syndicated across &gt;&gt; Because the content is syndicated across all these platforms. And that's why what all these platforms. And that's why what you're saying is so right. When my son you're saying is so right. When my son when my kids, my five kids go to school, when my kids, my five kids go to school, they interact with YouTube as their they interact with YouTube as their primary outside of school mechanism primary outside of school mechanism because so much of the school content because so much of the school content and educational content is there. So and educational content is there. So even if you shut off shorts and even if you shut off shorts and Instagram, they pop up over here. Instagram, they pop up over here. &gt;&gt; So it is this whack-a-ole problem for &gt;&gt; So it is this whack-a-ole problem for parents and you you it's a full-time job

[00:32] parents and you you it's a full-time job to manage it. And so if there is to manage it. And so if there is effectively like a labeling and like you effectively like a labeling and like you know a decision on governance by these know a decision on governance by these companies, it's deeply helpful for all companies, it's deeply helpful for all of us that have jobs are trying to live of us that have jobs are trying to live a life and raise kids normally so they a life and raise kids normally so they don't become zombies. don't become zombies. &gt;&gt; Zach, you're very active managing your &gt;&gt; Zach, you're very active managing your kids mobile phone usage. kids mobile phone usage. &gt;&gt; Yeah. How many do you have? &gt;&gt; Yeah. How many do you have? &gt;&gt; Look, I um I I think the new defaults &gt;&gt; Look, I um I I think the new defaults probably are better. I mean, just probably are better. I mean, just thinking about my kids usage, yeah, it'd thinking about my kids usage, yeah, it'd be nice if it turned off after, you be nice if it turned off after, you know, an hour or two. Um, so yeah, look, know, an hour or two. Um, so yeah, look, I think that's that's an improvement. I I think that's that's an improvement. I I do have to sort of def defend Meta I do have to sort of def defend Meta because I do think that there was a because I do think that there was a little bit of a ridiculous pylon um little bit of a ridiculous pylon um where, you know, the company's getting where, you know, the company's getting sued by adults who are blaming the use sued by adults who are blaming the use of this completely voluntary product. No of this completely voluntary product. No one's forcing you to use any of these one's forcing you to use any of these social network products and then social network products and then something goes wrong in their life that something goes wrong in their life that has many causes and then they're suing has many causes and then they're suing Meta and winning big judgments and then

[00:33] Meta and winning big judgments and then the state ags get in on the act and all the state ags get in on the act and all the trial lawyers the trial lawyers &gt;&gt; and the trial lawyers the trial lawyers &gt;&gt; and the trial lawyers the trial lawyers money I thought. money I thought. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, so let's just acknowledge that &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, so let's just acknowledge that there is a little bit of a shakeddown there is a little bit of a shakeddown going on here as well. I mean let's face going on here as well. I mean let's face it that that is kind of how the American it that that is kind of how the American uh court system works. But look, I think uh court system works. But look, I think that they have reached a resolution that that they have reached a resolution that I think is net beneficial and I like the I think is net beneficial and I like the new defaults and ultimately this is new defaults and ultimately this is about parental control. You know, about parental control. You know, parents should choose what you know and parents should choose what you know and how what apps their kids use and for how how what apps their kids use and for how long. It should not be the government long. It should not be the government doing that. It should be the parents. doing that. It should be the parents. &gt;&gt; Dina, can you &gt;&gt; Dina, can you &gt;&gt; and we should just make it as easy as &gt;&gt; and we should just make it as easy as possible for the parents to do it. And possible for the parents to do it. And in my view, the only reason to do these in my view, the only reason to do these new defaults is because of the new defaults is because of the whack-a-mole problem. It is sometimes whack-a-mole problem. It is sometimes difficult for the to like difficult for the to like &gt;&gt; I mean that is I'm glad we're having &gt;&gt; I mean that is I'm glad we're having this discussion. Um I I think the issue this discussion. Um I I think the issue for me has been the industry got very for me has been the industry got very addicted to gamification and designing addicted to gamification and designing products to be addicting and increasing

[00:34] products to be addicting and increasing time spent on app was in fact internally time spent on app was in fact internally what Facebook was focused on. The what Facebook was focused on. The challenge is, you know, you can be too challenge is, you know, you can be too good at something and I think Facebook good at something and I think Facebook along with YouTube and their algorithm along with YouTube and their algorithm were just too good at addicting people were just too good at addicting people to it, whether they're adults or kids. to it, whether they're adults or kids. And I will commend you even if it was And I will commend you even if it was late as an organization in doing the late as an organization in doing the right thing now and then leading the right thing now and then leading the other organizations to do the right other organizations to do the right thing. thing. &gt;&gt; Let me build on what you were saying &gt;&gt; Let me build on what you were saying with the statement. Um, and we Satia with the statement. Um, and we Satia talked about this. I think Jensen will talked about this. I think Jensen will talk about it. Elon will talk about it. talk about it. Elon will talk about it. But we are you're going to hear this But we are you're going to hear this word RSI over and over over the next 18 word RSI over and over over the next 18 months. recursive self-improvement, months. recursive self-improvement, which is this idea that if you define a which is this idea that if you define a function, a reward function for an AI function, a reward function for an AI and let it go, it's going to and let it go, it's going to self-improve. So, to your point, Jason, self-improve. So, to your point, Jason, anything, whether it's, you know, World anything, whether it's, you know, World of Warcraft or Angry Birds or whatever of Warcraft or Angry Birds or whatever app, you put it into an RSI loop and you app, you put it into an RSI loop and you add the reward function being time, add the reward function being time, they all these apps will proliferate. they all these apps will proliferate. Microsoft Word will keep you there for 9

[00:35] Microsoft Word will keep you there for 9 hours if it can. So if unless companies hours if it can. So if unless companies make a decision like you guys to say make a decision like you guys to say here's a threshold and beyond this here's a threshold and beyond this threshold we're just going to turn it threshold we're just going to turn it off. It's going to be kind of turtles off. It's going to be kind of turtles all all &gt;&gt; which was my point is how does it inform &gt;&gt; which was my point is how does it inform product decisions going forward? You got product decisions going forward? You got this incredible new product muse. You're this incredible new product muse. You're you're you're in the mix on the bots. Um you're you're in the mix on the bots. Um but again I think the leadership and but again I think the leadership and challenging the other organizations is challenging the other organizations is what I will give you kudos for. what I will give you kudos for. &gt;&gt; You know I don't want to speculate. I I &gt;&gt; You know I don't want to speculate. I I want to talk about this this this this want to talk about this this this this addiction thing as it relates to the addiction thing as it relates to the product that we all tried on backstage. product that we all tried on backstage. We all put on a meta glass and I'd never We all put on a meta glass and I'd never um I've never had the product before. um I've never had the product before. What is the the repeated use case of What is the the repeated use case of that product you think? Like what is it that product you think? Like what is it that gets people cuz you know Yeah. The that gets people cuz you know Yeah. The glasses. Sorry. Yeah. So like I remember glasses. Sorry. Yeah. So like I remember when Google had the goggles and then when Google had the goggles and then Apple had VR and everyone's had an Apple had VR and everyone's had an effort at putting something on your face effort at putting something on your face and none of them have stickiness. and none of them have stickiness. They're all like really interesting They're all like really interesting novelty experiences and then your usage novelty experiences and then your usage tapers off and you kind of put it in the tapers off and you kind of put it in the drawer and it's like a cool tech relic.

[00:36] drawer and it's like a cool tech relic. &gt;&gt; Well, they're very stylish. &gt;&gt; Well, they're very stylish. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; these are the Kylie Jenners. Um, no, &gt;&gt; these are the Kylie Jenners. Um, no, actually we are so excited about this as actually we are so excited about this as a product. Um, the the engineers have a product. Um, the the engineers have been working on this for 10 years. Um, been working on this for 10 years. Um, you make a good point that if people you make a good point that if people don't look good in them and they're not don't look good in them and they're not stylish, they're not going to put them stylish, they're not going to put them on. But, you know, billions of people on. But, you know, billions of people wear glasses, whether they're to see uh wear glasses, whether they're to see uh or obviously sunglasses. And we're or obviously sunglasses. And we're really excited about the features. You really excited about the features. You can obviously listen to music. Uh the can obviously listen to music. Uh the only way I listen to Allin every week is only way I listen to Allin every week is wearing my meta glasses as I'm walking wearing my meta glasses as I'm walking or working out. Uh they actually have or working out. Uh they actually have the incredible speaker and so your your the incredible speaker and so your your phone calls are perfect. Uh and now we phone calls are perfect. Uh and now we have a couple of features we're really have a couple of features we're really excited about. Conversation focus. So excited about. Conversation focus. So when Chamath is uh you know at dinner when Chamath is uh you know at dinner with his beautiful wife and he actually with his beautiful wife and he actually wants to hear her if he looks at her all wants to hear her if he looks at her all the noise uh it goes away except her the noise uh it goes away except her voice which is pretty cool. Um and then voice which is pretty cool. Um and then translation. translation. &gt;&gt; That's great translation as well. &gt;&gt; That's great translation as well. &gt;&gt; Can I do the opposite when I'm &gt;&gt; Can I do the opposite when I'm &gt;&gt; Shimath? It's interesting Dina. It's

[00:37] &gt;&gt; Shimath? It's interesting Dina. It's interesting you bring this up Dina. interesting you bring this up Dina. &gt;&gt; Great &gt;&gt; Great people I talk to. I'd like more of that. people I talk to. I'd like more of that. &gt;&gt; Shimath is just telling me he got the &gt;&gt; Shimath is just telling me he got the new Apple AirPods 5 specifically because new Apple AirPods 5 specifically because of wife cancelling. of wife cancelling. &gt;&gt; The opposite. want the opposite feature. &gt;&gt; The opposite. want the opposite feature. &gt;&gt; You can actually tune in. But let me &gt;&gt; You can actually tune in. But let me tell you why you're wrong and I'm right. tell you why you're wrong and I'm right. Okay, thanks. Okay, thanks. &gt;&gt; By the way, with with these products, &gt;&gt; By the way, with with these products, you're, you know, you're you're damned you're, you know, you're you're damned if you do and damned if you don't in the if you do and damned if you don't in the sense that if you design it poorly, no sense that if you design it poorly, no one's going to want to use it. If you one's going to want to use it. If you design it really well and it's a big design it really well and it's a big success, a bunch of trial lawyers are success, a bunch of trial lawyers are going to say it was addictive and then going to say it was addictive and then you get sued for that. you get sued for that. &gt;&gt; So true. &gt;&gt; So true. &gt;&gt; Dina, can you Sorry, I just wanted to &gt;&gt; Dina, can you Sorry, I just wanted to move to AI for a second before move to AI for a second before &gt;&gt; No, I want to finish on this. So like so &gt;&gt; No, I want to finish on this. So like so but but but it has this kind of but but but it has this kind of recurrent use case built into it at this recurrent use case built into it at this point. Is that cuz I really want to point. Is that cuz I really want to understand if understand if &gt;&gt; the reason so many people are are &gt;&gt; the reason so many people are are working I mean all of our peers are working I mean all of our peers are working on wearables because I do think working on wearables because I do think people want to be part of the world. people want to be part of the world. They actually don't want to be holding They actually don't want to be holding boxes walking around. They actually boxes walking around. They actually really want to be able to talk to their really want to be able to talk to their family, take a picture, take a video, um

[00:38] family, take a picture, take a video, um listen to music and it be hands-free. We listen to music and it be hands-free. We have Oakleys uh that are really really have Oakleys uh that are really really cool for um extreme sports. So, the use cool for um extreme sports. So, the use cases are just everyday life. And I cases are just everyday life. And I think you're going to show a video. The think you're going to show a video. The thing that surprised us was one use case thing that surprised us was one use case that we hadn't anticipated, and that uh that we hadn't anticipated, and that uh blind veterans. Um, actually, somebody blind veterans. Um, actually, somebody uh was joking with me. They said, um, uh was joking with me. They said, um, how are you getting blind people to wear how are you getting blind people to wear glasses? That doesn't make sense to me. glasses? That doesn't make sense to me. But can we show this video? It is such But can we show this video? It is such an honor to be here. We're in Austin, an honor to be here. We're in Austin, Texas at a BFW hall where metamates are Texas at a BFW hall where metamates are sitting down with amazing men and women sitting down with amazing men and women who've served our country and who lost who've served our country and who lost their eyesight. They have just been their eyesight. They have just been telling us they feel like they're telling us they feel like they're getting their independence back and getting their independence back and we're so proud to be giving them meta we're so proud to be giving them meta glasses. glasses. &gt;&gt; I took them to church. They have the &gt;&gt; I took them to church. They have the scriptures on the screen in front. I've scriptures on the screen in front. I've never been able to read that, but I never been able to read that, but I asked Meta and it read it word for word asked Meta and it read it word for word for me. for me. &gt;&gt; Seeing these extraordinary servicemen &gt;&gt; Seeing these extraordinary servicemen and women, all we've been saying is and women, all we've been saying is thank you. Thank you. We don't have thank you. Thank you. We don't have America without all of them. And as a

[00:39] America without all of them. And as a big surprise, uh we are about to big surprise, uh we are about to introduce them to Chris Stapleton. just introduce them to Chris Stapleton. just want to come by and say thank you for want to come by and say thank you for all your service. We're so grateful for all your service. We're so grateful for you. you. &gt;&gt; Chris Stapleton's the best. &gt;&gt; Chris Stapleton's the best. &gt;&gt; He he came and joined us. It was &gt;&gt; He he came and joined us. It was actually on 911 and uh just a couple actually on 911 and uh just a couple days ago. And what we learned is that um days ago. And what we learned is that um a group of uh blind veterans from uh the a group of uh blind veterans from uh the organization that that supports them organization that that supports them came and actually worked with the meta came and actually worked with the meta engineers and designed specific engineers and designed specific features. And it just turns out features. And it just turns out obviously the glasses can see for you obviously the glasses can see for you and read read to you. One of the and read read to you. One of the gentlemen I was sitting next to put the gentlemen I was sitting next to put the glasses on and he said, "Hey Meta, call glasses on and he said, "Hey Meta, call John." And I was sitting there, I John." And I was sitting there, I couldn't hear obviously what he was couldn't hear obviously what he was hearing and he just started sobbing. And hearing and he just started sobbing. And I said, "Is everything okay, sir?" He I said, "Is everything okay, sir?" He said, "That's the first time I've ever said, "That's the first time I've ever called my son on my own independently." called my son on my own independently." &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; So, we're seeing these kinds of use &gt;&gt; So, we're seeing these kinds of use cases, of course, that we're incredibly cases, of course, that we're incredibly proud of. proud of. &gt;&gt; I guess AI AI creates the unlock for the &gt;&gt; I guess AI AI creates the unlock for the glass form factor. That makes a lot of glass form factor. That makes a lot of sense. I because sense. I because &gt;&gt; is that the form factor that you think &gt;&gt; is that the form factor that you think kind of gets AI in a prevalent way for

[00:40] kind of gets AI in a prevalent way for most people in the world is the glasses most people in the world is the glasses form factor or is there something else form factor or is there something else you think you think &gt;&gt; I'm I'm sure there will be many &gt;&gt; I'm I'm sure there will be many products. I mean I I think what I have products. I mean I I think what I have learned from our team um is that you learned from our team um is that you know glasses are a thing people wear know glasses are a thing people wear glasses and it's something that you know glasses and it's something that you know many many people they're affordable and many many people they're affordable and people obviously we really worked hard. people obviously we really worked hard. Mark was very focused not just on the Mark was very focused not just on the design but the weight of it. So takes a design but the weight of it. So takes a lot to put the technology in here and to lot to put the technology in here and to still keep it stylish. And still keep it stylish. And &gt;&gt; I think you're a minority owner of &gt;&gt; I think you're a minority owner of Rayban. No. Or of looks like the broad Rayban. No. Or of looks like the broad partner. Yeah. We have an exclusive with partner. Yeah. We have an exclusive with &gt;&gt; I think that's why people should &gt;&gt; I think that's why people should reconsider these, you know, as a product reconsider these, you know, as a product category cuz I've had them since Google category cuz I've had them since Google Glass. And the battery never worked. Glass. And the battery never worked. They were too bulky. You look like a They were too bulky. You look like a dork in them. And now the battery works dork in them. And now the battery works and because you can control them, you and because you can control them, you know, not with Siri, which is still kind know, not with Siri, which is still kind of broken, but this actually works. And of broken, but this actually works. And when you're with your kids and you want when you're with your kids and you want to take videos when you're skiing or you to take videos when you're skiing or you want to take pictures, it actually, you

[00:41] want to take pictures, it actually, you know, putting a phone between you is is know, putting a phone between you is is much more intrusive. So, I think this much more intrusive. So, I think this actually brings you into the real world. actually brings you into the real world. And the translation feature is also very And the translation feature is also very slick. So, when you go to Japan or you slick. So, when you go to Japan or you go somewhere and they're talking to you go somewhere and they're talking to you in another language, it can actually in another language, it can actually translate. or if you see a sign, boom, translate. or if you see a sign, boom, just instant translation without taking just instant translation without taking your phone out. It's time for people to your phone out. It's time for people to reconsider these um specifically for reconsider these um specifically for those reasons. those reasons. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; You've used them a long time though, so &gt;&gt; You've used them a long time though, so you really know. you really know. &gt;&gt; Yeah. The batteries, the battery &gt;&gt; Yeah. The batteries, the battery problem, the fidelity just they didn't problem, the fidelity just they didn't work and now it does. Yeah. So, work and now it does. Yeah. So, &gt;&gt; Dina, just talking about the Dario's &gt;&gt; Dina, just talking about the Dario's essay this weekend, there was a report, essay this weekend, there was a report, but it was unverified that Zach said but it was unverified that Zach said something to the effect of we need to go something to the effect of we need to go as fast as we can. Um, I don't know if as fast as we can. Um, I don't know if that was kind of misinformation. No, no, that was kind of misinformation. No, no, it was like a report that just hit it was like a report that just hit Twitter at the same time that Daario's Twitter at the same time that Daario's or X when Daario hang out, but just or X when Daario hang out, but just taking a step back broadly, how did you taking a step back broadly, how did you process that essay and the call for process that essay and the call for regulation or how are you guys thinking regulation or how are you guys thinking about this? about this? &gt;&gt; Sure. Well, first I I really agree with &gt;&gt; Sure. Well, first I I really agree with a lot of what Satcha said. I mean, the

[00:42] a lot of what Satcha said. I mean, the the the premise, the starting point is the the premise, the starting point is that safety is paramount and that is that safety is paramount and that is something that Mark talks about all the something that Mark talks about all the time. I watch um daily how he and Alex time. I watch um daily how he and Alex Wang and Natt Friedman who run our lab Wang and Natt Friedman who run our lab think about it and they're and a whole think about it and they're and a whole team of people exist to think about the team of people exist to think about the safety of the models. Um and I and I safety of the models. Um and I and I think that you know there are very think that you know there are very legitimate questions around that. I legitimate questions around that. I think the difference is that Mark just think the difference is that Mark just has a very different view and I think has a very different view and I think that view is based on 20 years of a that view is based on 20 years of a business model of empowering and business model of empowering and connecting people and that 3.6 6 billion connecting people and that 3.6 6 billion people are on our platform every single people are on our platform every single day. 200 million small business owners day. 200 million small business owners operate their business every single day. operate their business every single day. And so his belief is that the more you And so his belief is that the more you distribute this technology, the more distribute this technology, the more people that have super intelligence and people that have super intelligence and are able to reach their potential are are able to reach their potential are able to have access to education and able to have access to education and health care that they could have never health care that they could have never imagined before, learning that they imagined before, learning that they could have never achieved before is not

[00:43] could have never achieved before is not only better for each of those only better for each of those individuals, but it's better for society individuals, but it's better for society as a whole. So he fundamentally just as a whole. So he fundamentally just believes when he wrote in his piece the believes when he wrote in his piece the future is for everyone that the future is for everyone that the democratization of artificial democratization of artificial intelligence will actually lead to a intelligence will actually lead to a more stable society. That is just a more stable society. That is just a fundamental belief that he has and I fundamental belief that he has and I think that um the thing that he thinks think that um the thing that he thinks about is so then what is his role? What about is so then what is his role? What is our role? And I think we were is our role? And I think we were extremely proud to have the very first extremely proud to have the very first American open-source model American open-source model &gt;&gt; just a few weeks ago. Well, Dina, you've &gt;&gt; just a few weeks ago. Well, Dina, you've uh got a lot on your plate. We really uh got a lot on your plate. We really appreciate you taking the time to come appreciate you taking the time to come and join us today. We covered a lot. It and join us today. We covered a lot. It was awesome. Thank you for being here. was awesome. Thank you for being here. &gt;&gt; Thank you guys so much. Thank you so &gt;&gt; Thank you guys so much. Thank you so much. Thank you. You're welcome. That was great.