[00:00:49] People are scared. They lost faith in the government. They have no trust. to power. They begin to organize, mobilize and to take the law into one's own hands hands. I was limited. Prime Minister, which is not really wanted to stop the boats. He adheres very liberal views on migration, so I didn't want to reduce immigration. He was indifferent to the stop boats. I mean that he somehow privately asked me, why so many people are upset through boats? These people come here and are working. This is good. for the economy. Did Rishi Sunak say this? Of course, yes. He told me this when was chancellor. When Rishi Sunak was Chancellor, he said : "I don't understand why people are upset because boats. These people come here and are working". Yes. Oho. This episode sponsored by our

[00:01:34] friends from Hillsdale- college. At once after this episode check out their incredible online courses that are absolutely free of charge on Hillsdale.edu/trigger. Therefore, Suella Braverman, Welcome back to Triggernometry. Greetings. Er... Glad to be back. It's very nice of you. returned. Last time, of course. , you came to the show shortly after, how they ceased to be, let's say so, Minister of the Interior Rishi Sunak's affairs. Yes. Uh, and since then A lot has happened, in particular you wrote book, so we are happy and We are eager to see you. Uh, but come on. let's talk first about your history families in the book. Uh, and, you know, the question " "Where are you from?" which we, maybe we'll touch later. Uh, but interesting for us, of course, for ours too the audience would be that

[00:02:19] that, leaving conservative government at that time, you still were a member Conservative party, and I remember, How did you put one or the other? two are a little sharper question, and you responded very well diplomatically. Since then, of course, you left Conservative Party . You have joined " Reforms". So what are you can you tell us about why conservative government failed this country, that, I think generally recognized, including herself Conservative Party now, what are you talking about? could have said then. Yes. Well, that's very nice introduction, so what am I really wrote this book for all those people, including myself, which are frankly angry at last conservative government and the last one Labour government, but the most recent conservative government, for the harm they caused inflicted on this country. AND

[00:03:04] now that I am older not in the Conservative parties, I am free to speak honestly against uh, what I think institutional cowardice and deceit, frankly speaking. I repeatedly said this within the party, when she was a minister internal affairs; when she hugged a tall public office, being the most influential a woman in government, trying, uh, to force conservative government to do the right thing regarding small boats, visas, Islamism, anti-Semitism on our streets, uh, and he, he refused again and again. What exactly? Conservative Party , the last prime minister minister from

[00:03:49] Conservatives, members cabinet of ministers from conservatives. AND by this I mean Rishi Sunaka, Jeremy Ganta, Kemi Badenoch, Tom Tugengat. Many of these people, who still rule Conservative party. And therefore in to my book I actually said that, you know, from David Cameron to Teresa May, Boris Johnson, Rishi Sunaka, Kemi Badenoch is different face, but the same tactics, the same deception, the same way of doing things, the same family. You know, to give loud promises, abuse rhetoric, but to do very little, and in fact to let people down. Recently we have show was journalist Dan Hodges. I believe that it was wonderful discussion, he brought some interesting thoughts,

[00:04:34] but one aspect that both of us and Francis quite strong upset, —this the issue of small boats. And let's be frank, this question now becomes problem number one, apart from the economy, which, of course, also huge , for many people in this country, not just for representatives right-wing marginals. You could say this became mainstream. THERE ARE- uh, and there was a feeling that regardless of whether what we always said sounded like: "Oh, this too difficult, this too confusing, you you can't do this make". What are you, you say we should invade, you You know, that's all. other. You, as a minister internal affairs, tried something make. You...without insult, but you suffered failures like everyone else . I'm being honest about this. Yes. This is undeniable. Why is this so complicated? question? Because, well, this can be very simplified, I just

[00:05:19] ordinary person, maybe it's very simple way formulate, but I I think about it like this. IN any other time in stories, if there were dozens thousands of men, and this exactly what is happening, arrived at your countries—some said would, would invade your country, you know, we can talk about it argue. Tens thousands of people arrived by boat to your island state. King countries organized a detachment of armed men people to leave there and stopped it. IN any period history is would be perceived as rational respond. I'm not saying what should we do it's today, but I I'm just stating that throughout history border protection was considered almost the only the duty of the state, and definitely—his the main task. How did we end up in

[00:06:04] situations where even people like you who at least they want it can't do to do this? Um, it's because of marriage. political will. So I was almost the only one. Minister of the Interior affairs, which really wanted to stop the boats and had that in mind. And that what I encountered, and the reason why I failed, consisted in the fact that tied me up the prime minister, who I didn't really want to. stop the boats, Minister of Finance, who didn't want it, and the whole office ministers, to whom lacked political of will. And it becomes very Of course, and that's it, What am I talking about frankly? I declare: all this was just a show. Therefore, it all came down to loud conversations. You you know, showing off and disclosure of this harsh rhetoric.

[00:06:49] Performance. But actually for behind the scenes, behind behind closed doors, completely lacking the necessary will to to do the right thing with legal, political and diplomatic points vision. What is the answer to this? Yes, well, tell us, because Dan Hodges says that this is impossible solve. Well, he's wrong. Okay, so how is it? solve? fully exists way to solve this. AND you can to make sure of examples of success other countries, what is this was stopped in others states. So, what need to be done—and This is what I am useless with. tried to reach Rishi Sunaka, Kemi Badenoch and almost everyone in Conservative parties—this first of all, get out of European human rights conventions human. I understand that I sound like a seasoned person. disc. But I will continue

[00:07:34] to say it while it is will not be done, because I saw—no only as a minister internal affairs, but also earlier than Attorney General , and even earlier as a lawyer, who worked in immigration courts before it became deputy, -like ours rights laws human were used against the British the people and, in particular, against the British state. So every time, when the minister internal affairs wants to delay illegal migrant or deport him, she is facing infinite number of legal lawsuits, many of which are fabricated, but mostly are based on human rights, namely on article 3 European human rights conventions human. This is a ban. torture, inhuman and humiliating dignity, behavior. So, the migrant

[00:08:19] arrives at the Great Britain with evil intentions, perhaps with Afghanistan by boat. We are trying it. deport. He says : "Article 3, if you send me back, even to France, not to mention about Afghanistan, you are violating mine the human right to protection from torture, because in Afghanistan me just "They will torture me." And he can invent some political party, to which he seems to be belongs to. He can to invent some conditional oppressor or a complaint that may to exist in Afghanistan. But in Iran, if they are from Iraq, if they are from Eritrea - Eritrea is now a country choice. If you come and declare, that you are from Eritrea, you guaranteed to win appeal in the courts. So article 3 often

[00:09:04] used as way to stay in Great Britain and to undermine the ability state to deportation. Article 8— this is another problem European human rights conventions human. This is the right to private life. Therefore, someone can to be here. It maybe, you know, foreign criminal, someone who arrived here, raped, killed or traded drugs. And we arrest them and we condemn for violation of our laws. We plant them to prison. But we we say, "Hey, this a person from Jamaica". "We we want to deport them back to Jamaica." And they say: "Article 8, you can't me deport, because in I have a child." "I have 6 months ago a child was born in Great Britain". " So, if you send me to Jamaica, you are violating my human right to

[00:09:49] family life". And, as as a rule, it becomes a winning argument in the courts. And therefore this Convention on the Rights of a person who started with noble aspirations and contains words from which no one will argue, the right to life. I am not against the right to life. I am not against the law— prohibition of torture. I agree with the right to fair trial. was distorted, stretched and expanded during many years, yes what is she really like became a charter for illegal migrants, not a document that protects the healthy sense, justice and human dignity. So explain this to me, Suella, because last time when we talked about it, and since then in your comments, and

[00:10:34] today you say, what was missing political will, Rishi Sunak, other members Conservative parties. And the central the argument of the book, as I I understand him— Correct me if I am mistaken, —it lies in that our governments and the state apparatus, such as Whitehall, refuse engage in immigration, because consider it a way manipulation economic statistics, right? But this does not apply illegal immigration, and that's exactly the moment that I never could understand this argument. What justification for that that Rishi Sunak, Boris Johnson or anyone the other did not go that way the way you offered? After all, this cannot apply economy, right? This is something else. So what? is happening? That's right. Regarding the question ECHR, I was the first Minister- a conservative who In office in 2022 general the prosecutor publicly stated: if we

[00:11:19] we want to stop boats, we need withdraw from the ECHR. Can it would be thought, based on your the question is what if this there was a decision, and I said it as a matter of fact Attorney General and former lawyer, who defended Ministry internal affairs in cases about immigration, then this would have some weight, and people like Rishi Sunak or Kemi Badenoch , would say: "Yes, maybe we should do this make". Why are they yes, you know, fiercely refused? Opposition to this within Conservative the party was really very, very strong. IN 2022, 23 and even 24 years my words about that we need to get out of ECHR, were considered marginal opinion. Why? This is a repetition. debates on Brexit. These are the same ones arguments. Well, they say, way out of this international the convention will be diplomatically harmful to reputation of the Great

[00:12:04] Britain abroad. You will put us in on a par with Russia, which , you know, kicked out of Council of Europe. We are not we want to be in one group with Russia. You destroy civil liberties . How dare you say, that we can get out of ECHR? We are respectful a country that is proud protection civil liberties . So, these are the same ones false arguments that easy to refute, but they are constantly repeat supporters maintaining membership, liberal establishment that constitutes a significant part Conservative parties to speak against withdrawing from the ECHR. AND it was…they won in this disputes. I lost. this dispute within Conservative

[00:12:49] parties. And you know, exactly so I left Conservative Party because they ultimately do not agree with this politics. They only superficially they say that changed their mind. Three years later, you know, they caught up with me, and Kemi said, "Oh, actually, maybe Suella was right, and we should copy this policy because it seems enough popular, Reform about they said that, but Nigel says this for years". So let's just copy it and let's hope, that no one will notice, that we really don't we mean this. But the truth is that vast majority Tory MPs categorically against exit from European human rights conventions person for those reasons, which I posted. And you you know, this is another one big lie to the Tories. You know, I'm for people had different opinions on various issues and opposed policy for reasons rationality,

[00:13:34] principles or expediency, but it terrible arguments, or wrong? Right. I agree. But they were convincing and remain the same among liberals elites inside Conservative parties. Why do you allow...U we are in the country now could be up to a million illegal immigrants, and this number constantly is growing. This is not good reasons in order for this to happen was happening. It It's just not right. They would all say...I countless argued with my colleagues- conservatives, with people like Kemi Badenoch, from Rishi Sunak. And I I am retelling my conversations with Rishi Sunak. I said: " Listen, Rishi, we we are lagging behind in surveys. You can to call an election next year or in a year. We have this boat crisis. It the main problem,

[00:14:20] through which people angry. You must act decisively." And he like this: "Yes, I know, I I want to do this. priority. Therefore I I'm making up a slogan:" We will do everything possible, "Let's stop the boats." I I am seeing you off. press conferences. IN I like these spectacular stands and all sorts events, and I constantly I get into this headlines". And I said : "Well, you have to act. You must act decisively. . And you know, if you are you decide, maybe you you will win the following elections, because this is an issue life and death". But to fix this, you must do necessary, even if difficult steps. You You have to withdraw from the ECHR. You you have to provide it again to the British state powers to delay for border and deport. If withdraw from the ECHR, plan

[00:15:05] regarding Rwanda will work. The main reason why we could not send those planes from the first time—this ECHR. This happened. through judges European Court of Justice human rights in Strasbourg, which at 11 o'clock in the evening when the planes were already standing on the runway runway, issued a prescription and They said, "No, stop these flights. Stop Rwanda program. And it became a fatal blow to Rwandan scheme. If we hadn't been member of this court, those airplanes could fly up. And we would started the whole thing Rwandan program with ready-made housing and Rwandans, ready with us to cooperate. I went there to to see the buildings that were built for placement of these illegal

[00:15:50] migrants. This is quite humane, recognized by the UN program. All this was fatally thwarted, because we were prevented by laws about human rights, which used in courts of the Great Britain and Strasbourg Court. And I told him: "We "must do it." And he replied: "Well, you know, that would be...we we don't want to break international law." It too...that's too much radically. This is too much. dangerously. And under this he meant that in the party is too Tory, including himself, who just didn't want to to spoil what is well-established. We are having this conversation, Suella, we use the words "radical", we say " dangerous". But I I tell you now: in real world

[00:16:36] many people already radicalized, and the situation is very dangerous because they constantly demanded not only a decrease in level immigration, but also termination illegal immigration. This is not is happening. We we see this in others too aspects when people take the law into their own hands hands. And I'm worried about that. that many people say: " Yes, I agree with them, "friend." And this, sorry, it's on responsibility government. This is on responsibility Conservative government, and this is responsibility Labor government. Right. People already at the limit of patience. They are on the edge, and I I'm really afraid for public order, because you are right: people lost faith in what their governments will decide this crisis. They see, what's happening today

[00:17:21] per day, and this is spreading. In mine electoral district Fareham and Waterlooville illegal migrants arrived in Portsmouth, right on the outskirts. We we can see the embankment from my district. Fortnight so it was Portsmouth. Last week it was Gosport. This is no longer limited to Kent and Dover. It's everywhere. People see the consequences in their communities through hotels for refugees, when women and girls experience attacks from illegal migrants. I visited Pittington a few weeks ago and met with women, which literally lost sleep over perspective settlement over

[00:18:06] thousands of illegals migrants conscript age on the outskirts of this small rural village in Oxfordshire. So people scared. They lost faith in the government. They have no trust. to power, and you are right, they start to self-organize , mobilize and to take the law into one's own hands hands. And you know when we are getting to this moment, I really I'm afraid for public safety, and , as I already said, for public order. I don't remember which one. just yesterday week, but it seems over 700 illegal migrants arrived in this country. And then In one day. In one day. And I see, both on the internet and

[00:18:52] among familiar people, what degree of tension really begins grow. And mine question: when the government Will he finally wake up? Because this situation, Let's be honest, just will escalate. That's right. She only is getting worse. It because the numbers are still ...you know, the government says: " Oh, well, there are fewer arrivals. than last year." As you say, boats are getting bigger, number of people per day still incredibly high, and the threat is getting closer to our homes. Therefore, I believe that people are becoming more and more more furious because of it. Them It's getting scary. They scared and angry. And I'm scared, and I actually too angry. And having... You know, I was

[00:19:38] Minister of the Interior things, and I don't have no trust in government. I don't have any. no trust in Conservative party, not before Labour government that they will they have the will or not ability is to fix. And therefore, You know, I understand. why are people scared and why are they angry. Most workwear —it is a cotton blend, sewn in the shape of pants, which is called functional. It works until you need to be active move, or until it will rain, or while you don't try to feel a pocket, which not where it should be. Truework creates overalls that really designed for such conditions. Workers T2 pants are stretched in four directions, so you can to bend, to stand on knees and to rise, not feeling resistance fabrics. Water repellent cover to keep out the rain ruined your morning, and nine pockets exactly

[00:20:23] where they are needed professionals, not where someone is came up with. You are not It would surprise me if I said, that I'm not quite the same a man who works hands. The closest thing that I do—I watch, like someone else is fixing my boiler. Very satisfactory. So I will allow reviews. say everything for me. Matthew Hobbes says that until now could never find so comfortable, strong and pants that are so great are sitting. CJ Argo says: they came perfect, as soon as I get them dressed. And Dan S. simply says: "Comfortable, wear-resistant, excellent "pocket location" . Truework workwear checked during 10 years of people who working in real conditions with tools. Work is not stops only because the weather is changing. Choose T2 work trousers and feel yourself

[00:21:11] comfortable, no matter what brought the day. Get 15% off my first order on truework.com with the code trigg. This is true. k dot com code trigg. Truework, created so, as if it's important because it Indeed. But also, Sewell, when will it come the moment when we let's actually do it for this, because yes It can't go on. At some point metaphorical rubber will meet with on the road, and that's when everything will be true alarming. Yes. Well, that's why, I I mean, this the reason why I joined the of the Reform party. I I mean, I lost any belief in Conservative party. I never could believe none of theirs word. So, the only party that has

[00:21:58] authority and what was consistent in this and other issues, — This is "Reform". AND Nigel spoke for himself. about withdrawing from the ECHR, well, you know, a lot, much earlier than I. He is the one who pointed out to the disaster with mass migration 10 years ago during referendum on Brexit. He stood before that with a poster and said that they are on the verge of influx of legal migrants. For all this courage, you know, he was called all sorts of bad things. His physical attacked, he ostracized and demonized mainstream media and establishment. But he never backed down

[00:22:43] from the fight for truth for of the British people. And so I finally, Thank God, I have " Reform. I finally found a political a house where I can believe in this question. And the last question, which one I want to put on this occasion: they are arriving from France. Why don't we we are talking to the French government? Why don't we say: " Listen, we need to find some kind of solution." "Why they just float here, and the French, it seems quite satisfied, if not to say that secretly encourage this? You are right. So, except for legislative changes, withdrawal from the ECHR and providing our immigration to officers of greater powers that possible only after withdrawal from the ECHR, we also needed diplomatic solution . And this is cooperation,

[00:23:28] true collaboration with by the French. And again Yes, I'm telling you. book like me communicated and begged his French colleague at the time, Gerald Darmanen, Minister of the Interior affairs of France. I told him: "This is a win for both sides, for for you and for me. If you intercepted boats if you really seriously were concerned about safety borders on north coast France, intercepted, detained and controlled illegal migrants, it would be a victory not only for us in the Great Britain, but also for you, because these thousands migrants are headed to Calais and Pas-de-Calais region Kale, because they want to reach Dover. And this

[00:24:15] destroyed that region in the north France. Municipal government angry at the French government, because not enough is being done . There reigns criminality. There are large camps. Camps in Sangatta actually still exist. It really did harm area. It damaged tourism, rural economy and security. If this the route was blocked, these people would stop going to northern region France, you would just blocked this path. So, that would be success for you. It win-win version. Unfortunately, me too I think this is an echo.

[00:25:00] Brexit times, the French government does not was and still is not seriously tuned to problem solving illegal migration in the north of its countries. I was told, which, honestly, for it's not them political priority. Their priority in matters illegal migration —this is southern coast, their southern border with Italy. They are more concerned about the influx illegal migrants from Italy to south of France. AND after all, if they are leaving France, this it is quite convenient for them . This is exactly what I'm talking about. was going to you to ask. If you don't you can close the entrance, maybe you will open Entrance. This is it now takes place in France. They send these people to us, because we don't can stop

[00:25:47] their influx. Yes. Yes, and, you know, we we continue to pay they are hundreds of millions pounds, we will continue we spend this money on the French. It seems like every month we we conclude new agreements, promising more drones over the English Channel, intelligence sharing, and that it will stop the boats. All this has no makes sense, because the French don't really want to to solve this problem. And because Macron holds a grudge on the British after Brexit, and it definitely had a grudge against Boris Johnson and any conservative government, because I thought conservatives responsible for Brexit. But exactly therefore, again, no I know, have you seen it? was achieved agreement between Nigel Farage and By Jordan Bardella. Jordan Bardella,

[00:26:32] most likely, it will be part of the following the French government, and Bardella and his the party really recognize the destructive the impact of illegal migration in France, they see the real the need for a true Frenchman British cooperation in the English Channel, to stop this. And I I think that between Bardella and Farage there is a real one devotion, even if political, not legal. So I want to touch the topic you commented; actually, I also spoke in podcasts with Fraser Nelson about what Rishi Sunak is not Englishman, and all that turned into big public discussion. But I I think these things related because mass level migration, which we

[00:27:17] had, forced us to this, as well as identical policy, which we conducted the last two decades where everyone was encouraged to think of oneself as about part of your community. You know, you are British Asian, I am British Eastern European, and France, obviously, Venezuelan, like everyone else They know, right? So we all members of a certain community, instead of to be simple by the British. And here it is now we have waves mass immigration, demographic share indigenous British population significantly decreased, especially in large cities, so they feel a little less protected, you can say. I would said, even significantly less protected. You have an implant identity. And therefore now we are forced to discuss about

[00:28:02] what does it mean to be in English, which means to be British. And I said that Rishi Sunak not English, because he is British Asian, which is true. He is British and Asian. . And you, you might say, came to my defense, and you also talk about it's in your book. Or can you just explain this to people, because survey, probably against us. Apparently, most people if look at polls, they say, that anyone can be English, if he was born here, that may be true, but Maybe not, I don't know. Well, it seems some people literally don't know who we are. AND I think you are right, this is a consequence experiment with mass immigration. And the feeling cohesion, feeling of unity identity has become harder to determine. THERE ARE Britishness, with on the one hand, which

[00:28:47] actually deserves very serious discussion, what are we talking about not quite here we are talking. But how we are related to Britishness in this country, it's a scandal. Anyone can be British. This became simply administrative formality. You you come here as low-skilled migrant on the wave Boris. You earn , working in the black market, perhaps Have you lived here for a few years? years. You can submit fairly quickly application for receipt citizenship Britain, and it will be very few obstacles for to become citizen. None questions about whether Do you love this country? Did you make yours? contribution, are you culturally answer Britain. Compare

[00:29:32] this with other countries, where much Go easy treat their own citizenship. Japan, Singapore. To become Singaporean, you must be very a wealthy person , which made a significant contribution to the economy Singapore. And only then, if you're lucky, you will get this special status Singaporean. Same and in other countries. But here—everything is allowed for everyone. Then in we have a problem Englishness. And I am with I agree with you. I quote you in my book, because the discussion that you called, was enough for me interesting. I never seriously, not about this I was thinking. I never put it in doubt. I grew up with their parents, with my family, and we never called

[00:30:17] themselves as English. AND my parents and ours social circle never called themselves as English. And I never called himself an Englishman. It feels very unnatural. For me strange, incomprehensible and it is wrong to say, that I am English. I am from I am happy to say that I British. And I, obviously, Indian ethnic origin . It seems that's accurate. and a graph in the form census that I can to mark. And I never didn't put it under doubt until you pointed this out. AND, you know, it caused a wave of liberalism hysteria. And I think that I can say one thing:

[00:31:02] when Rishi is not with you I agree, this is usually a sign that you are on the right path. You know, he seems not a bad guy. Isn't he pretty? boy? He is very good. boy, yes. With him you can drink tea, but as prime minister he is hopeless. Well, that's interesting, isn't it? Yes? And it seems to me, he is trying to be to those who embody all these good intentions. Yes. But I don't think he really understands the discussion that is here is being sharpened. Agree. And I think that the discussion is because there are many white people Englishmen—no one wants to say this publicly, but privately they say —feel that they the only ones who don't allowed to have own identity. Certainly. And I don't understand why continue insist on this.

[00:31:47] It seems very good to me. an unwise act. He personifies liberal trend, cosmopolitan elites , which constitute basis Conservative parties. And I don't surprised that he He says so. He adheres to very liberal views on migration, therefore not wanted to shorten it. He was ambiguous about boat stops. I have meaning that he once privately asked me why so many people upset because boats? These people come here and are working. This is good. for the economy. Wait, so Rishi Did Sunak tell you this? Of course, yes. He told me this when was chancellor. When Rishi Sunak was Chancellor, he said : "I don't understand why people are upset because boats. These people come here and are working". Yes. Ovva. This is extremely

[00:32:32] strange words. And therefore, and... Well, it's not just about Rishi. Your argument in because he thinks so majority Conservative parties. This is the majority. Conservative parties, of course. So, they adhere to liberal views for immigration. And this spreads further, because they consider it in economic terms . They believe that influx of people into country is useful for economy. This liberalism extends to their views on citizenship, culture and identity. So they occupy uncontrolled, "everything allowed", liberal position about who can to call oneself English and British. And if you here for a while, maybe born here, then you... Everyone is welcome. Everyone is invited. And this ...it's not because of evil intentions. I think this is comes from the desire "numo" all together "Let's unite" in this joint project

[00:33:17] unity. Reality, however, is that, that it is completely denies the existence ethnic, cultural and generic differences in our country. And also this denies my Asian heritage, as a person similar to me. Why should I be forced to take over Englishness as ethnicity or identity if this is not in mine blood? I don't have any. of English blood. As stated in the book, I worked with historian over his own pedigree, so that fill in the details on beginning of this book. My roots are in India, in Mauritius, in Kenya through Mozambique. There is a little Portuguese blood. This is real mixture, but there is no nothing English. And the connecting link is

[00:34:06] Britishness. This link—British empire. My ancestors were subject to British Empire. They fought side by side. side by side with the British. They worked with by the British. They built together with by the British. They have received an education thanks to the British. They received shelter from British. Women in my family is British were given the right to vote. They were released. by the British. There is very strong British connection. And that's why I'm proud I feel British. But to say that I English, it would mean, as you say, to reject an entire group the people of this country and erase a very important tribal and ethnic identity that associated with England. Homer wrote two

[00:34:51] the most important books in Western literature. "The Odyssey" is the one that recently attracted to yourself all the attention from obvious reasons. A " The Iliad, a work about pride, rage and leadership, which is not less important now also has free course from Hillsdale. New free online college course Hillsdale, which taught by a professor Stephen Smith. This is not collection of basic moments and not Homer for beginners. It thorough study text about honor, courage, leadership, friendship, sacrifice and what it means to live noble life. You you will understand why real struggle Achilles is not only fighting the Trojans, and the struggle with oneself yourself. This is one of over 40 free courses offered Hillsdale: about Constitution, Rome republic, American foundation, Book Genesis, World War II war and many another. All of them are built the same:

[00:35:36] are taught properly, without simplifications. I hard I recommend courses Hillsdale. Go to hillsdale. edu/ trigger to register free. It hillsdale.edu/trigger. One of the things in which I think you have unique opportunities , there is talk about Britain in comprehensive way. I think among so called "chatterers" classes" the idea that that Britain is evil, became peculiar generally accepted thought. This is a kind of a priori beginning conversations. Hmm, I think so. if historians will write about this period if Britain Will he survive this at all? period, they will say, that people have gone crazy. What do you see in

[00:36:22] Britain, what Don't they see? Well, that's another reason. why I wrote this book. I wrote this a book for those people, who are tired of what they are called far-right racist thugs only for what they say, like Britain made a few good things for civilization in past; What British Empire actually was, um, the power of good for millions, not billions, people; by what they celebrate our heritage, our culture, um, ours Christian faith. Ahem who are tired of of being called names fanatics just for that that they raise our national flag. And this book— challenge that, um, a consensus that says that Britain and everything that concerns British history, of the British people and British

[00:37:08] culture, there is racist and evil. So what exactly is in Is Britain great? We need to stand up and challenge this. And um, what's great about Britain? Well, from our historical prospects like me laid out in a book, British Empire, yes, of course there were mistakes made and were, um, unjustified offenses , but there was also immeasurable good. Ahem, was also immeasurable good, done thanks to the British investments, British risk, the British contribution, British service, um, in particular completion and the abolition of slavery. Um, and industrialization and development of whole parts of the country. Mauritius is wonderful. example. This is actually was abandoned jungle outpost, gm , before the arrival British. French were there, they

[00:37:54] laid some important basics, they began development and The formation of Mauritius ; but the British, you know , gave him a rocket acceleration, and he became one of the largest countries- sugar producers, hm, or islands in the world until the middle of the 20th century thanks to British innovations, industry and ingenuity. And um, this is just one example. Kenya—another one example. Infrastructure, schools, law systems, democratic systems —all this has been implemented by the British. And this, you know, little ones examples of the role that Britain played in world history, — why schools don't devote enough attention in class and what about young people are going out in the world, not at all knowing. Um, and I just I think that with

[00:38:52] historical prospects, but also from a cultural perspective prospects. I I'm telling you about mine. education, and it is in the classroom I really am fell in love with Britain. It is thanks to my teachers who opened for me the beauty of the great English literature, wonderful British anthems, told about our war heroes, in particular during the Second World War II, my the heart is full enthusiasm and in gratitude for that Britain made for world and continues to do by setting quality standards, justice, of decency—all those great values, which we cherish. But if you say about

[00:39:37] this out loud, you will be perceived as some kind of warlike tavern grumbler , which is waving " "Union Jack" is, you know, right-wing radical thug. It does not reflect at all of what, in my opinion, , silent believes the majority in our country. You know, that's interesting. We with my four-year-old son rode the train to London, and for some reason— I promise you, it's not my washing brains. He went to one of the tourist shops in London during the previous trips and demanded, so that I can buy it for him most British flag, who was there. So here it is he, four years old baby walking around . Well, I didn't have to none of this relationship, honestly speaking . Future Radical is growing. Yes, that's right. He- far-right. Yes, yes, yes. Its can be expelled from schools for this. On the train literally

[00:40:22] everyone who passed by passed by and looked at him, sincerely smiled, it was me noticed. People were very happy to see a little boy with British flag. I think that vast majority people just don't perceives the world in this way way. Therefore for me It is extremely strange that media and elite discourse so distorted in relation to ordinary ordinary citizen. M-hm. In this book I I call for decisive action. our restoration cultural confidence in Britain, because, on in my opinion, among most people silence reigned complacency about the virtues of Britain, Britishness, ours history and culture; but now this abuse

[00:41:07] immigration, people who come to our countries and do not want good for her, and also elite, establishment, "luxury class" beliefs", quoting Rob Henderson. Hmm, eh -eh, people in general are leftists views that through this is adhered to prejudiced opinion that looking at Britain and British identity in very in a negative light, claiming that others culture somehow way higher than British way life that we should dodge inside out, no to look racist, not to protect and not to to keep our actually, and what, you know, " "Fortress Britain" is very bad condition the things we have spread red the path before others cultures, to become on your knees in front of

[00:41:53] others, even if they are causing us damage, and what we have to appease them, frankly speaking, to appease our enemies. And, um, I I think that this elitist and marginal view, which penetrates our institutions through a kind of "wok"- leftist ideology, and I I think it's harmful, this really kills people. This is actually kills people because because of this they appear things like plans actions against racial questions to the police and the BLM movement, which says, um, that we shouldn't stop and to search people, because we institutionally racist, and, um, what we must provide black preference before the whites. AND, you know, terrible

[00:42:38] the way in which treated Henry Novak. The way those police behaved on the spot, originates from all of this cultural deformation, about which you are talking. So, moving on , Suello, you are now in "Reform" party, and " The "reform" is experiencing difficult times, aren't they? Yes? There were scandals, financial scandals, Sunday Times exposé. What do you think about this? as a person who is within the party? Well, thank God for " "Reform" is all I I can say. I felt high level of despair, political disorientation and real homelessness after 2023, when came to you on conversation. As I already I said I didn't have faith.

[00:43:23] to the Conservative party, and I— patriotic, grateful to all those patriots, and I want to feel confidence in political party, who is not afraid to be patriotic. Ahem, Simply put, what don't be afraid to do it the necessary work to to secure our borders, for the sake of all that is holy. What will not appease Islamists. What will it be? to arrest, um, gangs of groomers, not to turn a blind eye to them out of fear of giving up racists. Hmm, what actually going ban the IRGC, rather than letting them to enter the country and to tear it apart pieces. So I I feel great. gratitude for that " "Reform" exists. And, um, I will accept any. challenge. I would rather choose 10 difficult days in " "Reform" with all those scandals that they

[00:44:08] They throw knives at us. one day in Conservative party, because the party " Reform" is determined by trust . This is what she has. Nigel Farage and all, who is in "Reform", here not for the sake of status, titles or image. They are here to do that's right, and that's it really gives me hope. These are people who...I met a lot of people over the last 9 months, since I joined the party, people who nominated their candidacies for local elections. I am really impressed. one thing. They are not career politicians. The People's Army—we now the biggest political party in country. People who join the " "Reforms" are those who never been before politically active. Many people have never voted. They

[00:44:53] thought it was nothing doesn't change that there is no meaning. But there's something about them woke up. Something is happening, what are you talking about, and many of these people instead of to go out streets with anger, join the " "Reforms", because they see in this is the last chance save Britain, and I confirm this, this is That's right. I never thought that I will become the one who will change your mind about underwear, and Here I am on the political stage. podcasts I'm going to do exactly that. I I'm talking about Sheath, S-H-E-A-T-H , sheath.com. This is underwear. linen, built on the system double bag. If in simple language, this means that everything stays on his own places. None adhesions, none rubbing, none poking around in the middle sentence, trying keep serious

[00:45:39] appearance. The fabric breathes , design divides. Apparently, there is technical term for of what it creates, and this term—"Zen- distribution", which sounds It's absurd, but it is. quite accurate. Its developed by a veteran under time for your second services, which means that it was created in conditions where comfort was not a luxury. Over 10,000 five-star feedback from people, who are not joking, and, honestly, the difference in my everyday comfort is greater than I am comfortable. to discuss on political podcast . Who knows, that will understand. Go ahead. at sheath.com. This is s-h-e-a-t-h.com. Use the code trigonometry at design order for receive a 20% discount. The first pair is valid full warranty refund, so there is no reason not to try. sheath.com. Having tried Sheath alone

[00:46:25] once, you are no longer you will want to come back to another. sheath.com. Listen, the problem is because of the past week came out YouGov survey, according to which year because 27% of voters were going to vote for "Reform". Now this figure dropped to 22%. AND I think, I think that financial scandals played their part in this role. People were watching. to this they said: "Is they are just another one political party? Or they are just another one a party of dirt and scandals?" The answer is no. I, I I think, you know, myself Nigel, if he were here sat down, would be the first admitted that we are a new party. So we are developing, and we are in in the process of enlargement and professionalization . And, you know, will there be sometimes happen

[00:47:10] any errors? Yes, Of course, they will. You, you you will see progress on this moment. You know, It is now autumn 2026, in just two years from 2024- progress was exponential. AND you could say, well, you know, "Reform" is a bit were mistaken with selection of candidates in 2024, because our processes, well, there were immature. All this the work was done, and now everything fixed. And we we have very, very quality candidates, which pass through strict selection. And I very, I am very excited about the group people who will put forward their nominations from us on the following general elections. Brilliant, talented people who have experience beyond borders

[00:47:55] politics. You know, regarding financing, we never been, well, a new party, and yet yes, in 2 years we provided record , the largest donations in political history. You know, this phenomenal. So I I think this is great. vote of confidence, but also, you know, we we are developing. And therefore And we too we are very opposed hostile media, because yes just like you say about these elites establishment, that leftist, well, bourgeois mainstream, which is set on believes in open borders and what Britain is evil, that's it the very group of people who believes that "Reform"— This is bad news. AND they will do everything,

[00:48:40] to try stop "Reform". They have been for years tried to call us racists. They saw that it was not It works very well. Now they are trying to say that we corrupt. This is not will work. They are trying adjust the rules under yourself. They are trying to change, they are trying change the rules regarding donations. So they they want to do, they make us... Sorry to interrupt. , but I think that this important point. You you say that it is not will work, but I think what is Francis's opinion in because it is It worked. Well, we haven't had it yet. elections. Let's see what will happen during May elections. It the only way to find out. You know, getting Reform Party 100 places on the following the elections would be stunning result, historically unprecedented. Obtaining "Reforms" » 40 seats instead there would be five amazing. But the problem is that if you say that this last chance save the country, that is

[00:49:25] will not lead you to power, and now you are not you have a chance to form a government. Well, I actually think that these surveys are not reflect what I see. You know, I...and again, I have to say that some sociological companies do not necessarily behave properly in a way. I think they underestimate support "Reforms". I think they overestimate the other support. Certain parts of mainstream media is exactly that do. So I don't convinced that says one group surveys. There is also and other surveys, which show absolutely other. So the results surveys constantly are changing. There are also markets forecasts, Swell, which show that support Conservative party is growing. Now observed a certain exaltation. Let's see how long this lasts. will continue, but we

[00:50:10] we also need to evaluate the influence of the "Reforms". This, I I think it's impossible. to deny Well, I mean, I I'll say it again...This is what I tell people the truth. views. Next There will probably be elections. , the most important general elections in my life. And the choice will be very, very clear. We will to choose between continuation socialism, a certain coalition of the left parties. And this means more poverty, more taxes, more immigration, more weakness, and after another five years socialism situation can become irreversible. Or are we we can start

[00:50:55] update and fight back. And only "Reforms" can win Labour. So I appeal to everyone. right-wing, to those conservatives, to whom likes Kemi, and who thinks: "Oh, I I'm staying on board. conservatives, "even when he's drowning" . You are actually vote for socialism. If you want to stop Labour, if you want to stop socialist the destruction of our countries, there is no time for nostalgia. None time for sentimentality regarding the Conservative parties. No time for emotions about Conservative parties. It is the "Reforms" » is the only party, which has a real chance to win Labour. If you thought: "Well, you like Rupert Lowe. Do you like it? his character and you do you think it

[00:51:40] real professional. You you don't live in reality world. They can't to win. Therefore, whatever idealists you were not the only one way to stop this disaster—this vote for " Reform". Therefore, it has unification to take place around the "Reform". Conservatives do not can win in Wales. They just is not promising by force. They have 120 seats. They need more. than double this result to have at least some chance. As they are going to do this make? In Wales they end. They only have a handful of places in Scotland. Northern Midlands strip, " "red wall", which brought Borys to Downing Street, disappeared . They are no longer vote for conservatives. They reduced to to reclaim only

[00:52:26] wealthy areas London and surrounding areas counties This is not formula for success. This is not the path to victory. So if your goal is— defeat socialism and save the country, it should be "Reform". Someone might say: if your goal is— to defeat socialism, then the right-wing forces have unite. And I would say that this actually the same thing, about That's what I said. I think all those right-wing voters orientations that interested in restoration... You understand that I meant. I didn't have I mean the word...... conservatives. I I understand. In the end, I was myself conservative 30 years. Me it took a lot time to break up connections, and many in why was it because relationship. I am finally fell out of love with the National party. For me it is

[00:53:11] it was obvious. But very personal relationships with people, which I had for decades, They held me. They are like family. These were people from my district. These were my mom and dad, for the sake of everything saint. My mother was an advisor from Tories. She ran for office parliament. You see, It's in my blood. family. The gap itself these connections held me back, and I I think the same. happens with many people who still in Conservative parties. They are not may dare to upset one's own friends or, you know, change the command, by essence. I think so. respectable and understandable, but The future of the country is at stake. The future is at stake our children, and if you want to save country, you must to put realism above emotions, therefore they have unite around "

[00:53:56] Reforms". But doesn't it seem what is it worth to you to show a little realism? Look, simple truth is that I, personally, always got along well with Nigel. Me I like Nigel. The problem is that Nigel is like Marmite: either like it or No. There are people who are all life voted for conservatives, for which Nigel is too. That's how it is. there are such people a lot. But there are others, and there are more and more of them, radicalized crisis with small boats that say: " In fact, Reform is too soft-bodied. To us need a harder one approach. Desperate times require desperate measures ". So the question we actually put to you, Suella, or

[00:54:41] Will you be able to work? together? Because I I look at the left and I think: "They will be work together." AND if you don't—we're in in a difficult situation. I don't...I mean, Listen, I have to mind... You know what? You you express the right thoughts. You know, this That's nice to hear, right? Listen, I'm sincere. I feel that if you read that book, then you will see that Conservative parties simply do not can be trusted. The face is different, but the family is the same, and ways to promise and lie the same. And that's it. this is just for the sake of pictures. All for the sake of of what looks like okay, for the sake of

[00:55:26] surveys and lobby groups, but This is all insincere, that's all. performance. They are very good at speeches. They are very good at press conferences. They are very good at political show. But behind all this—a solid imitation. And that's why I am so grateful to the party. Reform and Nigel. They are in This is not for show. Nigel spoke about migration crisis for decades, even before how it happened mainstream, before as columnists of The Times agreed with him. And for that's what they called him racist and as soon as didn't name it, but he continued. He was the first to say that European Union destroys our democracy. For this establishment tried it stop. But he doesn't

[00:56:11] surrendered. And I think that this requires special courage and resilience, which now unique for British politics . All these policies are like this fake. They are like this superficial, they just follow the latest trends, want to jump in the last car to to go up a little in surveys, to get into newspaper headlines or to receive approval material. But this is not real, and I saw This is close up. I saw this is on the example of Rishi. I saw it with Kemi, with Boris, with Cameron. It's all just a show, and I will say this: Conservative Party —it's like an unfaithful partner. He is constantly breaks your heart with other women, and then returns with

[00:56:58] flowers and a box sweets and says: "Darling, I'm sorry, I really am. I'm sorry. "I have changed" . "I don't do that anymore." "I will." You forgive. him, and he again takes on the old. AND you are blaming yourself for that I forgave. That constantly does Conservative Party . I have changed. I am more I won't do that. I promise. But they do it. again. Reform Party "—it's like that guy, which passed through fire for you. He is a little beaten and exhausted, but he real, because it will pass through the swamp for the sake of you and what will make you necessary. He will say what is necessary. He he says this sincerely hearts, and he was right . That's why there is " Reform". This is true.

[00:57:43] the heart of the country, and Nigel—no apostate. He is not changed his views. He did not follow fashion. Here is who attracts "Reform". She attracts people, who have sincerity spirit and do not chase after titles, status or by power. He is real. . And so, are there certain " "growing pains" and whether need something fix? Of course. Of course. That's what we are. we do, and the party professionalizes very quickly. But the foundations have already been laid. And the British people sees it. Well, about Nigella, this is what I'm talking about. that often bothers me people ask. I I answer: what would you didn't think about him, the only thing he doesn't have can be blamed— it's that he's in politics for the sake of

[00:58:28] money, because he is very earned well in the City , and then left to run for office, lost the deposit and just promoted very much an unpopular cause, because he believed in her. It's me. I understand, but Suella, You are a smart woman. You You know what we're talking about. we ask. I have on in mind, if we talk realistic, that is high probability, what about the next elections, despite your a beautiful story about the wrong guy and everything else, a lot people will stay with Conservative party. Maybe their there will be little. It could be 40, 50 or 100 places, and they you need for formation of the government. So, the question is, Will there be a "Reform"? if this happens or

[00:59:13] even before that ready for something electoral agreement, or after the fact to unite in in the interests of the country and say: "Okay, this one the guy is not very good reliable, but we are "to the authorities." They are junior partner in this coalition. We we can implement our agenda, because, as you yourself say, the alternative is socialism. No deals. None agreements. Do you prefer socialism than an agreement with conservatives? Return to work with fundamentally dishonest partner? How can you do this? make? It's like, "Oh, okay, I just I will close my eyes to everything. your previous ones misdemeanors, on your history of chronic lies." This is getting a bit long. personal. I hit a sore spot. ? No, not really. But I feel guilty.

[00:59:58] just because of how you file this case. Don't worry. As yours lawyer, I advise you not to answer none of these accusations. Um, yes, how could we to do this? In them, in their, their, their hands not clean. How can you , they are But then you yourself bring socialism closer , to whom yes resist. What do I tell people? I I think the choice, as I already said it would be understandable, it will be clearer for people during the elections. Now it's more vaguely, because, you know, people everyone is considering options, and they haven't yet need to be decided. But I think when the mind will focus, you know, on the elections precincts, then I think, that the choice will be very very clear. Good. We are quite you were put under a lot of pressure in this matter. THERE ARE

[01:00:44] one thing I'm talking about I always ask people. from your party when you come to us. AND I think that this actually very important question. I am not I hear a lot about this. talked. I see how Robert Jenrick, yours truly economic expert, talks about it a little more. But to me it seems that for " Reforms" exists a big challenge, because I think that your guidance parties, including you , probably when the language it's about the economy, advocates for—I would I imagined, correct me, if I'm wrong, you Do you think taxes too high. You Do you think that business limited regulation, etc. You Do you think the economy depressed and her need to be revealed. Too much government, too much interference, too much of everything this. Too much social software. And so further. Aha. But at the same time, many

[01:01:29] people who come to your party, there is leftists in economics. They want redistribution, they want a powerful social security system protection, they want NHS, they want everything of what The British are already used to it. And that seems quite a difficult task for implementation. Because British public left in economic issues , and you—no. People watching this show, usually more thoughtful on how they work governments than most others. But there is a difference. between understanding problems and creating a real protection from it. It the world in which it works Mikkel Thorup. He already living as an emigrant over 25 years old, visited over 110 countries and in nine of They managed to live.

[01:02:14] Almost ten years that's why he founded Expat Money to help others to do the same. When he helps to create for someone international plan "B", the knowledge it provides, is exclusively from its own experience. Each recommendation is based on the fact that which he has already done himself. Expat Money works specifically with freedom-loving families and investors who want to reduce their dependence on one government or one system. Second residency, second citizenship, offshore banking accounts, international real estate, legal structures, that distribute your life across borders. Mikkel prepared free report under the title " Residencies and instant citizenship "according to plan B." In it five are considered ways to get second passport, including one, about which almost never they say. As a foreign residency is working like the real thing political

[01:02:59] insurance, which countries really have meaning depending on what are you trying to do to protect, and how much it really costs. Go to expatmone.com/trigger or click the link in the description of this episode to download report. It's free, without guile. It expatmone.com/trigger. British public left in economic issues , and you—no. Hmm, I would argue that most people who come to us, there are leftists in economics. Yes, we are winning in many former Labour strongholds, which in the past elections voted for conservatives. Um, we we win, we we show very good results in places like Wales, Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk and, you know, in

[01:03:44] industrial centers. Um, but I would denied the fact that that these people are leftists. I would said that they, perhaps historically were voters Labour. Hmm, but they want lower taxes. These are people who there is, you know, representatives working class, which want to receive more than that they earn. Hmm, this is people who see, um, uncontrolled social benefits, um , billions of pounds, spent on illegal migrants, eh, suppression of wages due to the tide foreign employees, and, um, they are tired of this. Um, I, I met there are many such people in to one's own district, actually . Um, just a few weeks ago I met man of years thirty-something, apparently. He was decorator painter.

[01:04:29] I met him when he was just returning home, and he said me: "You know, I actually fed up throat and angry. THERE ARE, My wife just... We have one child, and She is sitting at home with a baby. I work. almost 6-7 days week. We were not in I've been on vacation for 2-3 years now. We want another one child, but we have there is none opportunities to allow have another child. AND I'm so angry at this government. exhausts and breaks me , and the tax rate It just suffocates. THERE ARE, the cost of mine materials and labor became...She never was higher. And as I have, you know, to keep a small child and

[01:05:14] wife? And I'm here. I'm doing everything right. I am teaching here on full and not sitting on help, and such feeling that British state does everything to, you know, substitute Give me a foothold. And I I think millions people feel that exactly, and they are completely could have been historically voters Labour. Therefore, it all comes down to tax cuts. Tax burden too high, and that's why we spoke with a very big political statement. Robert Jenrick announced on conferences that we let's raise the threshold personal privilege, um, up to 15,000 pounds sterling for those, uh, those who have, uh, lower earnings, and this, uh, will lead to the fact that people will leave more money from their earnings. But

[01:05:59] tax thresholds are very good example of how the past conservative government, supposedly a party low taxes, completely failed. You know, these tax the thresholds were frozen in time pandemics, although they promised to raise them, but not so far arrived. Another one Tory lies. But this really distorted our system personal taxation. Therefore, you have people with low income that never shouldn't have been pay higher rates tax, but they go there dragged in. So I would said that these people really want lower taxes, and lower taxes—that's not ...Absolutely, for sure. AND here is the classic an example of how we a punitive one appeared tax system. It does not stimulate people work. Ago many people think: "Well, actually I could earn more on help "." Why I have to work if to get help so easy? "So, this is

[01:06:44] is getting longer and longer more people on low-paid work. Besides teachers and nurses, who never had pay a higher rate, now they pay her. AND regarding higher incomes, well, you know, marginal tax The rate is punitive. THERE ARE people who are not will agree to increase, not will work harder hours, because it's just not Is it worth their time? money. So how do we created such personal information system taxation, which actually repels people from work and restrains them? If this is is not a sign inoperable system , then I don't know what then. Therefore, I will say that these people really want lower taxes, and lower taxes—that's not ... I'm just looking at the popularity of such things like tax on luxury, and everything this...I never used the expression " "politics of envy",

[01:07:29] but in many ways it is similar to VAT on private education schools. This is just led to the fact that the rich continue to send their children to private schools, and people who were on the verge of barely scraped together the funds for private education, now forced to transfer children to public schools that worsens the situation in the last ones because increase in number students in classes, etc. AND it's just politics, which says: we have all become a little poorer, so let's "press" those who have a little more. And these measures are becoming quite popular in the country. That's right. Well, I would say that we we believe...So, we we believe in the system social provision for all vulnerable persons and those who really don't can work, and we We care about these people. But we have a system, which is no longer

[01:08:14] is determined real vulnerability and a real need. IN we have a system that actively demotivates work. We have a system that works too soft. And therefore in there are too many of us, who claim that they are sick or incapacitated, and not can work, although in reality can. So what are you going to do with this? What should I do, Rachel? Well, the party suggested large-scale reforms social sphere. We we will assess the condition much better health stricter. We we will reduce expenses on social software about 50 billions of pounds. It significant savings. We will direct these funds to things like defense or other areas of our economies that really need investments. We are the only one the party that offered enough bold plan social reforms software. You will be

[01:08:59] to accuse, as it were was with Duncan Smith, in that you, you know, you're causing harm to people, perhaps even bring them to death. And through the bulkiness of these huge state systems, unfortunately, if have you ever reduce aid people with a diagnosis ADHD, anxiety or something like that, it turns out that some of they really were in in a difficult situation and needed support. How are you? are you going to cope? with all this? And this again, you you know, there are many lessons that can be to learn from experience conservatives. They tried to hold social reform provision, but not gone far enough far away, because for their board volume payments only increased. Labour Party —very good an example of this. It seems that everyone Prime Minister of Labour tries reduce costs for social security, but there are about a hundred Labor- backbenchers, who are strongly against this will not be allowed

[01:09:44] This is what will happen. So, hmm, I doubt that Andy Burnham will reach at least some progress in cost reduction on social help. Therefore I I think this is...Here why am I so glad that there is a party "Reform" ". You know, among us is political consistency. Again yes, that's one of the reasons why I am very happy to be in "Reform". You you know, you said about the invasion. I said that this invasion when there was Minister of the Interior affairs. It seems that in 2022 or 23 years old. Deputies- Tory, you know, lost their minds, panicked and They said I was sowing. disagreement, the tone is wrong , the rhetoric is wrong, and, you know, me, um, criticized their own colleagues, including cabinet members. Ahem, everyone in the party" Reform "consider it invasion and very,

[01:10:30] hmm, comfortable feel, describing it exactly like this. The same applies to such things as social reform software. Ahem, you know, it will be party. We already are. party, and we we will stay party, which, you you know, united in on this issue, therefore what we all see the scale of the problem and urgent necessity reduce these costs, because otherwise nothing impossible to do. Economic growth impossible for current state social spending software. Ahem, invest in our defense is impossible, if we continue to spend so much on social security. Um, you know, this is before how we get to schools and hospitals. Therefore, it is economical priority number one, if we are going reduce taxes and to launch an economic growth.

[01:11:17] One interesting moment regarding your theses on disagreements and statements certain things in a certain way Time is what we have. former guest Matthew Sayed, whom we we love to see in on air. He wrote article in The Times this week, where he said that Matthew is great because he skillfully turns to his kind of center British politics , and people of the left views also his are listening. But he as if saying what people like you only 5, 6 or 10 spoke years ago. He wrote an article in which actually claims that Angels Merkel, David Cameron, Macrons of this world, they were extremists, while they were being glorified. And it seems more and more that consensus, or suddenly a window Overton, shifts so fast. And now more and more people

[01:12:02] receive permission to believe in things that we argued a long time. Or Do you see this? opportunity for "Reform" party really win the next elections as the result of this? I think more people...I think you you're right, window Overton is shifting. But I also think that more people are becoming increasingly more desperate. It arises stronger feeling of despair because of what to do with various crises that are affecting our country. And in many ways, than it gets worse Labour, and for this government there will be more Labor members worse. The budget will be disaster. Quite it is possible that during the next 12 months in

[01:12:47] this country will come financial crisis. Immigration will be to deteriorate. Will be more riots. There will be more protests. Will be more than two-stage police system . There will be more Islamism. Victims grooming gangs are not will receive justice . You know, with each the year when our the country is increasingly slides down, level of despair, fear and anger is growing. And I think that again, exactly so I am very grateful to be in a party that fearlessly offers your decisions. We the only party that says: "We are actually militarize our border. We will use Royal naval fleet". Conservatives They make fun of this, but actually it is

[01:13:32] the right way. I was in Greece when held office Minister of the Interior affairs. Greece is relative history success when it comes to about the fight against illegal migration. At the peak problems with Syrian million refugees migrants, you know, invaded Greece through its sea border. They built a wall. The Greeks actually built a wall on to his land border with Turkey. They used drones, armored vehicles and soldiers, and for several years the number has decreased by approximately 90%. That you can see it too in the case of America. You know, decisive. approach to security borders was that helped stop problem on the southern border. AND I think people...more a few years ago they would consider

[01:14:17] unthinkable attraction armed forces for protection of our borders, but now, I think more and more people agree, that this is necessary West. And "Reform"— the only party that says: "Yes, we agree." This is exactly what we we offer in our politics. Before we move on until our last questions and questions from our audiences for Substack, there are something I always think about ...this is the question I I always put politicians of any kind direction: how are you When do you think they will be? the following general election? Actually, I would like to to find out what you are you think. This is yours. kind of...well, lottery. You must...we must... Wait, like the mayor in program" Off the Fence ", this new show that we launched from Winston Marshall and Tom Slater from Spike. So we are constantly Let's discuss this. Yes. What is your position?

[01:15:02] Yes. So, here's how... if I were Burnham, I would announce them in the next couple months. I believe that this is the best time for him. And I know...I I know, Andy, you love This is a show, so... Yes. You know, advice from me to you. Did you have it? No, no, no. Did you invite him? Of course. We invite all leaders major parties. You know, he...he's from the same part of the world, as is my father. So in we have a lot in common, Andy. Ahem. I say if he was smart, he I would do it now. He will never be more popular than now. He has this one. lift. He hasn't yet managed to implement a policy that will to annoy, to anger and alienate certain people. It seems that for "It is a certain impulse." The reform "suffered"

[01:15:47] from scandals and another. So now they are in decline. The right did not unite. Green as if retreated because he...he is very skillfully done with ultra-left in Labor parties. This should be the moment when he will do it now. It really annoying b some members, some deputies from Labor parties, because they will lose their places. But if it the ultimate goal— leave Labour in power, I think, he should do it now. Personally, I don't I think that's him. will do. I think he thinks that he has enough support, to hold out longer two or three years. Of course. Yes, and I mean, the idea that he it will never be like this popular as it is now, I think it's quite Okay. The only question in that he could to declare elections now and lose or be obliged to create a coalition,

[01:16:32] which would make it difficult for him life. So he can just wait. It maybe so, you know, you know what you you will get...But also, you know, we argued about it on Off The Fence program the other day. Maybe we We now live in the country. , where most votes for the left. I I am speaking purely. statistically, regarding percent of people. I think , Winston noted that we constantly let's argue about it, but the percentages remain absolutely unchanged . 47 for the left, 47 for right-wing. Uh, and Burnham, it seems very, very skillfully consolidates left-wing electorate. So, when it comes to voting, they they say, "You know what? We must stop " Reform". We must stop Farage." And they all gather and vote for the left party. Uh, so it's hard. say. Uh, but he recently stated himself, what will not happen, he will not

[01:17:18] will appoint election. What do you think? Is that so? You to him Do you believe? Well, all the prime ministers ministers say this before to call elections. It seems Rishi said on March 24th:"No, "There will be no elections." In 3 months we have There were elections. Uh, It seems Theresa May famously said: Choose me as leader, I will not appoint elections ". Literally in a year she called elections. So I never believe them when they say" no ". Uh, and, of course, in there are, you know, absolute prerogative regarding them destination, so only they will know. Uh, we ready. In our party "Electoral Reform" state, and we, you know, we ready for the future struggle. Uh, and if he will appoint them, You know, uh, so be it. Uh, no one is for him. voted. And people really feel, huh -eh, they feel it keenly, what is missing

[01:18:03] legitimacy. Um, he ...It seems he wants to declare enough, you know, big changes in politics, that differ from manifesto. Its possibilities regarding tax changes limited by the manifesto. He talks about changes in the field social protection. He is very is concerned about this question. You know, this actually not in the manifest, and that would be huge a change in how we we finance social protection and how we provide it. He wants to do this. similar to the system The NHS, essentially. Hmm, this is big departure from what they talked about to people when they were elected Labour. So, with On the one hand, he can to reject the possibility early elections in the near future. But on the other hand, he speaks about political steps that, technically speaking,

[01:18:49] would demand elections and personal mandate, if he wanted to implement them. So, he says ambiguous, what is... It's almost as if he politician. It's almost like that, like he's a politician, yeah. I work on a budget. that the elections will take place in the next 6 months. Really? Personally, I interesting. And how are you? How much do you think? will receive Reform on these elections? Well, I... Many good ones results, because, as I already said, you know, if you get 100 places—it's amazing. This is incredible. Yes, but this not enough to to form a government. IN British politics , the new party receives 100 seats. Yes. Well, I mean, I think the Reform party has already reached many championships for the last years. So anything is possible. I mean that

[01:19:34] I work on the basis of calculation, that after the following general elections Prime Minister Farage will become. It the only way restore hope and trust in the country and to start, you know, restoration, frankly speaking, because the country is in deep, deep crisis. Economy terrible, as we just noted. Problem migration is required solve. You know, our schools need correction, and this is mine sphere. People can't to attend a reception to the therapist. We completely and dangerously vulnerable, when it comes to our armed forces. We are not we will be able to protect ourselves, if only we attacked by the enemy state. We...we crippled. Our heavy industry destroyed because of

[01:20:19] "pure madness" zero ". So much for everything ...And I haven't even gotten there yet. to government dysfunction, courts and administrative state bodies that simply do not work. So, you need this many profound changes, radical transformations, responsible radicalism. Than We're faster than that. Let's do it, the better. . Suella, what are we talking about? We're not talking now, but would it be worth it? Before Suella will respond to last question, necessarily visit triggerpod.co.uk, where can you do this see. What would you change in police work? Or What would you do with it? the police? What is one thing in

[01:21:04] Britain, on your thought was lost for your life, and whether maybe politics Is it really possible to return it? What are we not talking about now? we say, but it's worth it would it be? Well, I guess you already talked about it a little bit , so maybe it's not exactly the same answer, but I'm touching this in my book, and I ready for By the way, you did book advertising— book advertising, book advertising, Tim, give a name for listeners. In my the book "Patriot" I I say...Continue. « Patriot: empire, betrayal and hope." I I say, and I'm ready for negative reaction from female side community. I I'm telling you about my personal experience starting a family, about difficulties with the birth of a child and, frankly speaking, about

[01:21:50] the mistake I made assumed, putting it off too late term. I gave birth first child at 39 years, the second—at 40, and, biologically speaking language, I almost I'm late. This is what I am very interested. for several years now: no just my personal one history, but also the fact that that I am a part of a huge phenomenon on In the West—involuntary childlessness and fall fertility. AND, actually, for context , that's pretty good illustrated in book. You know, mine Grandma was born in 1922. She was one of the nine

[01:22:35] children. She came out. married at 18 and gave birth to five children. Three of them survived. One of them— my mother. My mother gave birth to me in 1980 year, and I am an only child . If we continue this trend with mine daughter, she will not have children. And we won't be able to to provide a working force, citizens, energy, dynamism— people needed for support our countries. This is huge. social and economic "bomb" slow-acting, which, in fact, already explodes. We see in in many parts world, as governments are starting seriously to treat the fall

[01:23:21] fertility. And this what we are talking about need to start speak. And since you're talking about it they talked, this really interesting. You remembered that this is another one the discussion that I ignited with their irresponsible comments. But actually we have will be very interesting commentators who will participate in debates on the show with about this. What, what was that? You mentioned, that you are one of those the lucky ones who were able to jump in the last car, just on time, at the latest moment. By the way, this is has its challenges, because you have children with a small difference in at an age that is not easy, as we both know, etc. What exactly put you in this situation position? You know what? that's what made you to be in such a situation situation? This is what I I am researching in my book. Hmm, I think so. the most important This is what I am researching. in his book. Um, I I think the most important thing

[01:24:06] the reason was that I was raised to put academic and professional first place achievement place. Me too raised to be " businesswoman." Me that's how they were raised, and mine Parents are happy about this. admit, we often We are talking about this. They they told me, and this follows from experience my mother and grandmother : “Don't get married. Not, Don't get married. Not Limit yourself. Not stop at achieved. Don't let it. God, don't give birth. the child too early, because it will simply destroy your professional odds. This will destroy your career, so pursue a career." AND during my 20s and I am 30 years old That's what she did. And did

[01:24:51] I have it almost perfect, according to the textbook. AND then, in my 30s, I found herself without children and without a husband, and was very concerned about that, perhaps, made a mistake and did wrong choice. Therefore, I believe that there is a cultural question about what we speak our young people and our girls. I don't think so. what we tell them that fertility limited. I don't think so. that we are enough we are talking about family in in a positive way. I I don't think we we honor enough men as dads, parents and breadwinners in our cultural narratives. And, of course, with economic point

[01:25:36] we have done very difficult, if not impossible, for young people to start a family and to think about marriage or birth of a child. You know, if you finished university, you you are starting your journey with a debt of 50,000 pounds sterling, when you are a little older 20. Your average The salary is 35 000 pounds sterling. You can't possibly do that. to afford down payment for dwelling. Uh, people don't will give birth children living in shared apartments. Yes. So, we did very economical difficult for young people people of the establishment children. Therefore, I believe that there is a mixture problems, like cultural, and economic, which contributed to the reduction fertility. Uh, Suella, very Thank you for coming. show. Hey, welcome. see. Book called "Patriot"

[01:25:58] , Empire, Betrayal and Hope". You mentioned her. only about 73 times during the interview. This is not enough. Can me, can I remember her again? Go to triggerpod.co.uk, where you you will be able to see it. If "Reform" wins parliamentary elections elections, how are they will be able to avoid obstacles from the side ossified bureaucracy that deeply hostile to reform policies?