[00:00:46] Nobody cares what you think anymore. &gt;&gt; Actors, love them or hate them, they just will Love them or hate them, they just will not go away. They've existed since the earliest days of human civilization when Greeks and Romans would gather around to watch them perform. And today, they're in virtually every form of entertainment we consume. Well, until our AI overlords finally assume control of everything and replace them with perfect digital replicas. &gt;&gt; Perfect. &gt;&gt; Some are performers of superlative skill and commitment. Others are chosen for their unusual looks or personalities, their great beauty, or their Instagram following. &gt;&gt; Either way &gt;&gt; acting tends to bring with it a degree of fame and attention. And the higher their star rises, the more of both they'll get lavished on them. And this is where the problems can begin, dear

[00:01:33] viewer. See, as much as failure and hardship builds character, success and adulation reveals it. Some manage to remain humble and professional, well aware of their role and what's expected of them. Others shun the public spotlight altogether, preferring to keep their opinions and private lives to themselves and let their performances do the talking. &gt;&gt; This is what streaming does to these people. &gt;&gt; Is that, you know, power doesn't necessarily change you, but it lets you be who you really are. And I think that whenever you give a person money, power, and a lot of autonomy, they have the ability to either be a good person or a bad person. &gt;&gt; While others are able to parlay their fame and success into billion-dollar business empires, turning their own identity into a brand to be marketed. Those are all fine in their own ways, I

[00:02:18] guess, and I don't have a problem with it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; If you want to keep to yourself when you're off the clock, then that's your right. If you want to make money and people are willing to hand it over to you, then go for it, man. But there is another kind of actor, dear viewer, a kind that used to be fairly rare until pretty recently when the world of the internet and social media and instant 24-hour access to their fan base somehow fried the parts of their brains that used to be able to differentiate good ideas from bad, convinced them they were more than just good-looking meat puppets saying words written by someone else, and that the world desperately needed to hear their often uninformed groupthink opinions on absolutely everything from geopolitics to the economy, military conflicts, hot-topic social issues, and even who they should vote for in the next election.

[00:03:04] &gt;&gt; I love how he's just yelling. I don't even know what it is. &gt;&gt; guys. Hi, Avengers. &gt;&gt; Hi, Scarlett. &gt;&gt; jumping on the call. &gt;&gt; Whoa, whoa, whoa. I think you mean assembling. &gt;&gt; [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] off, Avengers cast. You know, I never really &gt;&gt; did the Avengers came together to try to get Kamala Harris elected. They did. I feel like, you know what really killed the mystique and the morality and like the absolute kind of glamour of Hollywood was Harvey Weinstein. That's what really put the nail in the coffin. And after Harvey Weinstein happened, I felt like afterwards, we had a huge huge amount of people that no longer respected or wanted to hear what anybody from Hollywood ever said. Because one of the

[00:03:49] things about Harvey Weinstein that was interesting is that everybody knew that this was happening. I think that's kind of what the main thing about that that made it so kind of compelling was is that every single person probably had some kind of idea that this was happening, but nobody said anything about it. And I think that rubbed a lot of people the wrong way after they just spent being having spending a decade being evangelized by these people. That's why they've really been negative. Cosby, too. Well, he was an individual. Like Harvey Weinstein was a lot more connected. &gt;&gt; noticed this before, but they look so plain and washed out and ordinary when they don't have their professional hair stylists and makeup artists around to

[00:04:34] tart them up. What can I say, man? Reality can often be disappointing. I'm talking, of course, about the rise of the activist actor. Possibly the most insufferable and deluded of all celebrity creatures. The population of activist actors in Hollywood used to be critically small, existing only in scattered groups and rarely venturing out in public, but it skyrocketed over the past decade, driven by an insatiable need for online validation, the approval of their fellow meat puppets, and their own thinly disguised hatred of anyone who thinks differently from them. Now, just before I go on to skewer them properly, a quick word from today's sponsor. You don't have to listen to it, and you're free to skip it, but just know I appreciate you if you do. &gt;&gt; off of Hollywood. Yeah, every everybody

[00:05:20] everybody knew about Harvey Weinstein, bro. They all knew about it, and they all kept quiet because they all wanted to keep their job. And after that, I feel like the amount of like moral authority they had went to zero. &gt;&gt; Who? &gt;&gt; They did. &gt;&gt; Now, much like yourself, I've been known to frequent the internet from time to time. And just like you, I've discovered it can be a dangerous place with all those absolute scoundrels out to steal your data, spy on you, and generally make life unpleasant. That is why you need Surfshark to take care of all your online security needs. Want to browse shopping sites without all those annoying tracking ads following you everywhere? No problem. Surfshark's ad blocker stops tracking cookies and personalized ads, meaning you get the

[00:06:05] browsing experience that you want. Getting bombarded by scam emails? Then fear not, because Surfshark scam checker automatically scans incoming emails for known scams and fishing attempts. Worried about your financial information falling into the wrong hands? Well, not anymore, because Surfshark automatically encrypts your personal data, uses network-level security, and even proactively monitors for external threats, making sure your money stays exactly where it's supposed to be. With one account, you can install and use Surfshark on as many devices as you want to make sure you're protected at all times. And the best part is their 30-day money-back guarantee that gives you plenty of time to try it out. If somehow you're not satisfied, you can cancel your subscription and get your money

[00:06:51] back, no hassle. Go to surfshark.com/drinker and use code drinker at checkout to get four extra months of Surfshark. What are you waiting for? Go now. Okay, let's move on. There are many examples these days, but the reason I bring it up specifically is because former She-Hulk actress Tatiana Maslany, remember her, recently did a sit-down podcast interview where she aired her thoughts on activism in Hollywood and her opinion of celebrities who prefer to stay out of the whole thing and just do their jobs. &gt;&gt; Tom Selleck, uh the legendary TV actor, Magnum P.I. But he said, "Look, I don't dabble in politics because uh if I don't understand why you want to piss off half the country if your job is entertaining the country." What And then

[00:07:36] Michael Jordan used to say like when he said, "Uh Republicans buy shoes, too. Our job is to entertain people. It's not to kind of get involved in this stuff." What's your response to that? &gt;&gt; Uh but but all of it is political. Like everything is political. All entertainment is political because it has a viewpoint. &gt;&gt; I have an IQ of 48 and what some people call mentally [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] &gt;&gt; I mean, I could point out here that Michael Jordan's an athlete, not an artist. And that Tom Selleck is way more famous, beloved, and successful than you'll ever be, Tatiana. But hey, you don't need me &gt;&gt; People say everything is political because and in a way they're right. Everything kind of is political. But whenever they say everything is political, what they're trying to really

[00:08:21] say is that I want to use that as an excuse so I can force my social issue down your throat in this movie. Whereas whenever somebody says everything's political, it's about, you know, good triumphing over evil in Lord of the Rings. Like yes, almost everything has a political angle to it. And so the real problem isn't that your content is political, it's that your politics are odious, annoying, not popular, and everybody hates them. That's the That's the real issue. Nobody has a problem with Metal Gear Solid. Nobody had a problem with Death Stranding. Nobody had a problem with Metaphor: ReFantazio. Nobody had a problem with any of these games because

[00:09:07] they were good. The problem isn't politics. The problem is slop. &gt;&gt; To tell you that. &gt;&gt; That's really what it is. &gt;&gt; would be easy to dunk on Maslany herself as an aging bitter failed star who blew her one shot at the big time with one of the most hilariously disastrous shows in Marvel history, pitched a hissy fit that got her rejected from the &gt;&gt; by the way, yeah, she is being interviewed by Mehdi Hasan, who all he wants to do is emotionally blackmail people into accepting terrorist propaganda. That's all he's trying to do. So that's why he's having her on, asking this question, wearing a save Gaza shirt on the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Yeah, how about save Gaza from Hamas? You know, like wearing it as like it's Star Wars. Like that that's what the real goal is here.

[00:09:52] &gt;&gt; forever and burned most of her bridges in Hollywood, and has since aged out of the industry, and is now facing a slow painful descent into obscurity. I could do that, but I won't. Not in this video at least, because there's a bigger issue at play here, and that issue is summed up perfectly by her sentiments in this little segment, which pretty much encapsulates the mindset of every activist actor in Hollywood. &gt;&gt; Artists are like mirrors to the world, to society. &gt;&gt; So, I thought to myself, why not take a few minutes to break it down and see if we can't draw some conclusions from it. Ready? Tough [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] because we're about to start. So, right off the bat, I can see that she's operating under the false assumption of what actors are and what

[00:10:37] their role actually is. Because here's an uncomfortable truth for you. Actors, in and of themselves, are not artists. They're performers. Truth nuke. Oh my god. Absolute truth nuke. You're not an artist, you're a performer. Wow. Holy [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] that's bad. They are instruments who interpret pieces of art, i.e. the script, usually within a very narrow framework defined by the director. In the same way that a

[00:11:22] construction worker isn't an architect because they don't conceive and design buildings themselves. So, the role of an actor isn't to create works of art, it's to perform them to the best of their abilities. Now, that's not to downplay the expertise involved in what they do or anything. Acting can be a challenging job, and the best actors are rightfully praised for their skill and commitment to a role. But, the key difference is that they're not being praised for their artistic vision. They're being praised for their ability to bring someone else's artistic vision to life. They themselves create nothing. Now, that can probably be an &gt;&gt; I think that there's there there's like exceptions to this, and there's ways that you would say like, I mean, you know, like Henry Cavill with The Witcher. But, keep in mind that what happened What was the end result with

[00:12:07] Henry Cavill and the and The Witcher? He's gone. He's gone. Because Cuz the end of the day, it's the studio, the director, the producer, they're the ones that are making the movie. That's it. And then yeah, and and you obviously have like there's other exceptions where it's like uh Mel Gibson that are directors, right? But yeah, in general like yeah, sure. Uh Sylvester Stallone, another good one. &gt;&gt; A pleasant realization for a lot of actors, especially famous ones who are surrounded by yes men that bombard them with relentless positivity and probably fancy themselves as boundless fountains of creative energy. The unfortunate truth is most of them are not particularly creative people. And if you ask them to write a screenplay or a

[00:12:52] novel purely based on their own imagination, most of them would fail spectacularly. The realization that they're nothing more than attractive meat puppets getting paid embarrassing amounts of money to dance to someone else's tune is understandably kind of horrifying to them. Which is why I think so many of them turn to activism to fill that creative and intellectual gap. It allows them to create &gt;&gt; Jesus, he's really going in. This is wow. &gt;&gt; The illusion, however misplaced, that there's more to them as individuals than just looking good while saying lines on screen. They want to be seen as something deeper, something more thoughtful and wise than just another vacuous performer. And activism not only allows them to do it, it allows them to morally grandstand over others at the same time.

[00:13:37] &gt;&gt; probably like there's like an there's like a level of like misplaced guilt that I think a lot of people have that are successful where they see how successful they are and they realize that I don't really deserve this and then they think to themselves, well, I have to do something in order to offset my guilt for living this lifestyle that I don't think I deserve, which is I think another psychological like effect of why they're doing this. It's so they can offset guilt. It's imposter syndrome. Yeah, I mean there's definitely a bit of that. And I think also they can, right? A lot of people would do this if they could do this. &gt;&gt; elevating themselves to the level of enlightened benevolent guides trying their best to shepherd the ignorant

[00:14:22] masses of humanity towards a better future. &gt;&gt; Really? &gt;&gt; Such is their fantasy. But okay, for the sake of argument, let's give Tatiana a break here and broaden this discussion out to artists in general because this is where it gets really interesting where the interviewer dares to suggest that maybe the purpose of art and artists is to entertain people instead of lecturing them. &gt;&gt; But but all of it is political. Like everything is political. All entertainment is political because it has a viewpoint and it has it has a perspective. It has visual representation of the world we live in or the kinds of things that are funny or acceptable or the ways that people relate to each other. &gt;&gt; Well, we all knew this was coming.

[00:15:07] &gt;&gt; I mean this is you're painting with such a broad brush that everything is like that. Like what these people do is they paint with such a broad brush like this so they can justify enforcing their politics into your media. That's what they really want to do. &gt;&gt; old all art is political argument which funnily enough &gt;&gt; Like I mean there's very clearly a big difference between like a Michael Moore movie for example versus like uh I don't know um a Seth Rogen movie. I mean really. Like I mean there's clearly a political difference here. And if you can't draw that difference you're just a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] idiot. And you're you're you're not an idiot, you're just lying.

[00:15:54] &gt;&gt; It seems to come from people of the same political persuasion. But let's address this once and for all. When she says that art has to mirror the world that we live in, what she actually means is art has to mirror the world that she lives in. Like any good activist, she wants and in fact needs her art to reflect all of her political views, reinforce her beliefs, justify her world view. She doesn't really want to be challenged or presented with alternative ideas because the prospect of any other perspectives being given artistic credence and therefore legitimacy is so terrifying to people like her that it simply can't be allowed to happen. Only one particular world view is ever &gt;&gt; That's why they try to go out of their way to attack anybody who is right-wing inside of media because if you have

[00:16:41] right-wing media or entertainment that's popular, it destroys the, you know, seeming moral, like majority that they have. This is why they go after anybody, like they they do like these tribunals to make sure that people say, "Are you saying BLM? Are you saying free Palestine? Are you saying X, Y, or Z thing?" Like they do that in order so that in order for them to enforce compliance. It's the same reason why women get really angry at other women whenever they date men that women don't really necessarily approve of in mass. It's because basically they want to act as one collective bargaining force and they know that their ability to do that is how they can express power. allowed to be advocated for and that

[00:17:27] version has to be hammered home in every aspect of people's lives so there's literally no choice but to conform. That's the very obvious motivation behind the all art is political argument, but even if you set aside the self-serving bullshittery of it all, it's ultimately grounded in a flawed premise. The reality is that art is not inherently political. Art is entertainment and entertainment exists outside of politics. It always has. From paintings and poetry to movies and video games, all of these different artistic expressions exist for the same basic reason, to entertain us, to engage us, to pass &gt;&gt; I think that I I actually don't think this is a good argument. I think that on a fundamental level, the way that you tell a story is politically

[00:18:12] charged. And I think that even inside of stories that are seemingly apolitical, nine out of 10 of them, and probably a higher ratio than that, actually do have political DNA in them. And I think that you can reverse engineer that DNA to look at the messaging behind the story and what the political affiliation of it is. I I I do think that's true. Like whether it is even just something as simple as an appeal to tradition or something about a woman being able to, you know, do something that a man can do, or whether it's something like the police that are able to go above and beyond and work extrajudicially to go after a criminal even though they might

[00:18:58] have broken some rules, something like Sicario, for example. Like I actually think that many things are, you know, you could easily say they're political. Like Taken, you know, is a movie, like in a way that's political because it shows that the government in a lot of cases doesn't actually do these things and it requires a man to go out of his own way and to enact vigilante justice and to, you know, do the right thing because he's presented as a hero and it's an evidence of the system that's failed. So, I actually think that you shouldn't argue on the angle of politics isn't art isn't political. I think you should argue on the element of your art and your politics is garbage and nobody likes it or wants to have anything to do with it, rather than trying to make an argument

[00:19:43] that I think is defeating itself. Where like even Tolkien himself said that Lord of the Rings is a profoundly Catholic work. And what is Catholicism? I think it's very closely related to politics because politics is informed by religion. So, the reality is that yes, art actually is political, and it's not about whether art is political or not, it's about whose politics is being reinforced. That's really what matters. Commercial entertainment is not art, although it can approach that at the cost of commercial success. Well, you have things that are always like again, like there's a spectrum of it, and what I'm saying is that there are more than there are more things than you would imagine that are actually on that political spectrum.

[00:20:28] That's all my point is. It has political elements, but it's not political in its totality. Yes. I think there's a huge spectrum. Time with a pleasant little distraction. Is The Warriors 1979 movie political? Absolutely, it's political. Abs- it a 100% The Warriors is political. Like that that that's like one of the easiest ones that you can say. &gt;&gt; We don't need art to survive. We create it and we consume it because we choose to, not because it's a necessary reflection of our own worlds. In fact, I'd argue that a lot of people consume entertainment specifically to escape from the real world, and who can blame them? It provides a welcome distraction

[00:21:14] from the tedious humdrum reality of most people's daily lives. It can elevate and inspire. It can open windows into fantastical alien worlds and far-off futures we can barely comprehend. It can expand the limits of our world and our imagination, and it can do and be all of these things independent of politics. Yes, art can absolutely explore political themes if that's the express objective of the art in question, but &gt;&gt; And I think that overwhelmingly most art does explore political themes and overarching themes that are Venn diagrams with political ideologies. I think that overwhelmingly almost all art does that. Batman is, again, the entire genesis of what Batman is, for example, is all about the idea of what

[00:22:00] happens whenever the police don't do their job and you need somebody who is a vigilante that's able to do that job for them. Like that's that's really a Batman was a Chad. Yeah, exactly. It's a question of justice and and these things are not they're not directly political in the same way that vote for Democrats is political. But they do encourage thought about conversations that lead to political conclusions. And I think that's a good thing, by the way. That's an amazing thing. It's not a bad thing. It's good because it makes shows interesting because politics and the way that we interact with the world is political. The Joker is anarchy is an anti-capitalistic. Yeah, the Joker is

[00:22:46] obviously anarchy, right? It's order against anarchy. &gt;&gt; It's not a prerequisite for its consideration as a piece of art and it's definitely not required for it to be entertaining. What Tatiana here narrow-mindedly thinks of as politics in art are actually the much broader, more interesting and universal fields of philosophy and morality. &gt;&gt; Yes. Politics is just a very specific very limited interpretation of those things. They are not the same and trying to conflate the two by crowbarring very specific and very partisan themes into stories and setting &gt;&gt; I I think that they're they're derivative. Like they're derivative of each other. Like politics is derivative of philosophy and philosophy is derivative into politics. Like there's I mean they're they're they

[00:23:32] they feed into each other. &gt;&gt; Things that absolutely shouldn't accommodate them is exactly why mainstream entertainment is in the creative slump it's been for the past decades. It's also the reason Sydney Sweeney's tits somehow became a national emergency. When you try to make all art political and those politics are only ever allowed to go in one direction. &gt;&gt; social politics. Her expressing and showing her body that way is absolutely social politics. &gt;&gt; You don't have art anymore. You've got [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] propaganda. You might want that Tatiana, but the rest of us don't. Ultimately though, I have to defer to Oscar Wilde on this one when he said, "It is the spectator, not life, that art mirrors." People extract meaning from art independent of what the creator

[00:24:18] intended and what precisely they extract says more about them than the art itself. If you choose to see politics in everything and you insist that art has to mirror that worldview, then [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] me, man. Maybe you're the problem. &gt;&gt; Yeah, and you're trying to you're you're trying to insert your worldview into everything. &gt;&gt; Anyway, that's all I've got for today. Go away now. &gt;&gt; I think this is a good video and I I do think that he's very right about the fact that a lot of media and a lot of actors think that it's their responsibility to talk about politics, but I feel like again, after the Harvey Weinstein stuff, it was just over. It's over. Nobody wants to hear from an actor about what the good or the right thing to do is from now on. It's annoying. Nobody wants to hear about it. I mean,

[00:25:04] it's just too much, right? And yeah, there it is. All games and movies are just propaganda now. Well, there's thinly veiled propaganda that are inside There's There's thinly veiled propaganda that's inside of video games, right? So, like things like for example, changing male and female to body type one and two. This was done for a political and a social political reason. And so, the problem is that these people want to worm their politics into everything and I think that really the best way to approach that is to fight fire with fire. You do have to replace people like that and you have to go after them and basically replace their ideology with your ideology. Because again, there isn't a world where this is never

[00:25:29] approached by anybody. There's only a world where there's a dominant ideology and a subservient ideology. So, I don't agree or believe that like you can just kind of it it's like what I always say about like it it you know, you can never leave the gun on the table. It's either you pick it up or somebody else does. So, that's the way I look at anything else. And uh thinly veiled Yeah, it it's it's very thinly veiled, but that's it.